![The Carpentries Logo](https://software-carpentry.org/img/TheCarpentries.png)
# :memo: IDC Leadership Meeting :file_folder:

__Date:__ 2019-06-26

__Time:__ 1900 UTC

## :raised_hand: Attending
* Sarah Stevens
* Tobin Magle
* Marco Chiapello
* Kemi Mogbowan
* Arindam Basu

***

## Notes

Plan to talk over last week's meetings and prioritize projects we'd like to do.

How do we engage more instructors who are pre/post workshop?
 - Aus/NZ talking about inviting instructors to visit other workshops - Virtually or in person 

### Project Ideas
Project suggestion 1: We need to go through the discussion session forms and update the handbook with common questions (and meta analysis of who is hosting and why some folks are not hosting) ++++
Project suggestion 2: Virutally inviting instructors to visit other workshops in some high throughput manner +++
Project suggestion 3: Update the instructor notes - bug bbq / sprint+ +
Project suggestion 4: How to keep people involved after the workshop: Work on materials and testing out different ways to engage learners after the workshop for instructors - Life cycle of a community - turning learners into helpers into instructors+
Project suggestion 5: Figuring out ways to train instructors in lessons they don't know, so they can teach them.

// Virtually inviting the instructors is doable right now, asking the instructors come and sit in the workshops and provide feedbacks. 


### Project suggestion 1 goals, strategies and deadlines
- Everyone needs to have access to the data (form results)
- Link: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18vxxDjz74ZsWX7WdEe8P27b3V4PDmEbClrmqfYfBttM/edit?ts=5d07baf4#gid=872227524
- https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-development
- Take a snapshot and clean up the data
- Make project folder / repo (private - or code is public but not the data)
- Questions we want to ask about the data
    + How many people are coming to each session on average?
    + How many people are pre/post workshop vs checkout?
    + How many sessions have a notetaker?
    + Which topics were discussed? (this might be the most difficult to parse)
    + Who is hosting these discussion sessions?
- Use the results to inform what the form looks like

Action Items:
Sarah : Put notes into the IDC github repo
Sarah : Make team and repo for this (github ids: sstevens2,   maglet, mchiapello, arinbasu, )
Everyone : take a look at the data and play with the data a little, try and make it tidy
Everyone : think about which questions you are most interested in or other questions.

Next months Meeting - Full IDC July 15th and Leadership meeting July 24th (times same as this month, will come with announcment)
