# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

__Date:__ 2018-01-29

__Time:__ 13:00 & 22:00 UTC

## Co-Chairs

- Toby Hodges (1st meeting)
- Marian Schmidt (1st & 2nd meeting)

## Attending

- Kari Jordan (1st)
- Jamie Hadwin (1st)
- Mark Laufersweiler (2nd)

### Introductions & Check in questions:
To start off the meeting: Please answer one of the 4 following questions, with the 5th as optional:

1. What's new?
2. What's exciting?
  - TH hosted a meeting last week with people who are involved in local carpentries communities and it went really well!
  - ML: CarpentryCon - mentoring has a breakout! Mentoring should organize one
  - MS: Time to implement our surveys!
3. What's bothering you?
  - KJ: so many different communication channels, but hard to reach everyone with important announcements. Important to know who the 'hubs' are, to push info to community members.
  - JH: talked about this in our mentoring group - two people commented on how much there is to choose form in the Carpentries! Good to think about risks of having too many channels
  - TH: Idea of a unified announcement system? Announcements can be a burden for people trying to announcement
4. What have you thought about from last meeting?
5. Describe your mood in one sentence (optional follow-up).


### Updates from liaisons for other subcommittees:

#### Trainers Committee (Erin)

- Possible changes to instructor training checkout requirements. This will be finalized Feb 1st.
- New group of ~15 Trainers to come on board by the end of the month.

###### First Meeting

- TH is one of the new trainers that will be ready by the end of the month!
- Potential modifications include the removal of the requirement to:
  - Contribute to a lesson.
  - Attend a discussion session.
- If this 2nd requirement was to be removed - there would be a major change in the attendance.
- MS: This will impact other committees - what does the decision making process look like?
- TH learned serendipitously as he is training to be a trainer.
- Approx 40% of people who undergo the training complete the checkout
- Frustration for the trainees who cannot find a discussion
  - Marian - check the instructor checkout questionniare to see if this is represented in a question****
- Too early for trainees to be involved in the discussions. Don't know the right questions to ask.
- Toby has noticed an increasing number of trainees and tend to have the same conversations.
  - rest of checkout procedure e.g. live demo format, prep
  - timing lessons correctly
  - Lacking a diversity in discussion topics
- JH: Instructor discussion emails - not sure if there's a big return on the emails in having people attending. Can we re-evaluate what we're doing to try to increase engagement?
- KJ: Process --> run it by the trainers before they bring it to the mentoring committee. Original goals of the checkout process:
  - Help ensure that our teaching is still high quality --> demo sessions also does this
  - Understand how we create our lessons and learn how to collaborate.
- Different types of membership --> people only want to volunteer to lessons, or teach, or help with discussions.
- What are different ways to contribute?
- Hope that it can be a way for the mentoring subcommittee into doing other things rather than only hosting discussions.
- Maintainers: Someone adding a comma --> not quality additions to the lessons.
- How can we develop more quality programs for mentoring? and also the maintainers to develop more quality lessons?
- JH: we did get a few people sign up hosting/cohosting from Erin & Maneesha’s emails to the trainers to help host the instructor discussions.
- TH: If requirement gets removed without a plan to get people involved in other ways. The discussion sessions could die.
- JH: A few discussions - a lot of instructor checkouts didn't understand the checkout process. This could be a way to improve communication between the commtitees and improve training
- MS: when I did instructor training (summer 2015) we had similar problem with people not actually becoming instructors after training. Systemic issue.
- TH: There were enough people who were worried about removing the discussions that there still might be some time before a decision is made.
- KJ: Let's take this as an opportunity to replace it with something phenomenal. There will be a transition period.

###### Second Meeting

- ML: Demo definitely needs to happen. Pull requests could happen later. Trainer group to host discussions (to take a burden off of mentoring)
- ML: doesn't expect 100% of instructor trainees to become instructors (e.g. faculty not expected but staff member is more required)
  - Different reasons that people go through instructor training
- ML: Open instructor trainings are at a different percentage --> waiting list has been so long (maybe waning motivation)
  - How can we onboard new instructors as mentors?
  - Do attitudes change throughout the instructor training course? (especially when they haven't been an instructor/helper)
  - Promoting engagement can be tough with volunteer organizations -->
- ML: Constantly onboarding the next person. Can't keep to stay too long in the same position. What are the motivations of our volunteers and try to harness them to get them to be engaged in a meaningful way.
- ML: Separate discussion specifically for onboarding. And another specific discussion for pre-/post-workshops. Invite people to come attend the workshops based on their experiences.

#### Steering Committee (Christina)

- Technically, the SWC/DC steering committees have now dissolved + there's a new committee as part of the merged "Carpentries"
See a list of current steering committee members here: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/12/executive-council-2018.html
- Will need to work out a way to facilitate communication between subcommittees like this + the organization/steering committee

###### First Meeting

- MS: Who on the new committee can be the new liaison?
- KJ: I'll take a look at the list.

###### Second Meeting

- ML: Minutes are in within 24 hours of their meetings.

#### Mentoring Groups (Kari)

- Created a page on GitHub to encourage community members to attend the mentoring groups virtual showcase: https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/blob/master/mentoring-groups/virtual-showcase.md.
  - Register for the showcase via this Etherpad: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/mentorship-info
- Showcase on Tuesday, February 6th - there are 2 showcases
- Mentoring groups will be back in April. There will also be some "sneak peeks"

###### First Meeting

- KJ: People have been having a good time and enjoying themselves. Ideas to improve the mentoring groups. Will have a post-mentoring survey next week. Work with the mentoring subucommittee to improve the groups before it's reintroduced in April.
- TH: The timing was a little tough as Toby had to withdraw from one of the mentoring groups because it also coincided with trainer training and the other mentoring group.



### How are the discussion sessions going?

- Recruiting February/March discussion leaders! http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
- Please remember to put your email on the etherpad when you sign up to help host instructor discussions
- If you see a new person who signed up to host/co-host with you, please reach out to them!

###### First Meeting

- JH:  March sessions have been added to the etherpad!
- KJ: Has a discussion tomorrow. There are 4 checkouts and 1 debrief
- TH: we are planning to reach out to a few people for discussion coordinator
- JH: Has been hosting sessions. Most session have been checkouts. There's been a few pre-/post- workshops.
__Thanks to Jamie for filling in so many of the sessions and taking up the slack there!__

### Dissemination of two questionniares (Community discussion & host)

- __It's happening!!!__ Host Questionnaire: form for hosts to fill out after a discussion session
- Questionnaire here: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/14lhvSviLMikgidMyBke-cheBiD73_FoorDLso3KfViY/edit?usp=sharing
  - It automatically sends an email to checkout@carpentries.org with the list of participants from question 7.
- Community Discussion Questionnaire to be sent out

###### First Meeting

- MS: In my most recent sessions, I forwarded the email created by the survey straight to checkouts@ address. Ready to be implemented. Need to make sure that hosts are aware of this and see that.
- TH: Is the pool of hosts small enough to send an email? We should email the hosts directly and then add to the ether pad. And an email to the mentoring email list.
- MS: community questionaire might be useful for discussion around removing discussion session checkout requirement? Maybe we should check whether we should add a question to help with this? Could send it out today?
- TH: Rayna (I think) - if we remove the checkout requirement - maybe there would be more experienced instructors at the discussion sessions.
- JH: If we are able to release it soon, how long to leave it open to collect responses?
- KJ: 2 weeks with one reminder a week in.
- JH: How to communicate with others to share and encourage to share with their ocmmunities.
- TH: Most responses are at the beginning and after the reminder.
- MS: should we add a question about whether people think the sessions themselves are useful?
- KJ: what would be the end goal of asking the question?
Marian: way of finding out whether it's worth the time of the subcommittee to keep them going.
- KJ: have to be careful about making decisions based on only responses to a survey - depends on sample size/response rate. We have a big community.
- MS: "Would you recommend attending an instructor discussion?"
- KJ: Having an opening ended questions:
  - How has attending/hosting affected your teaching your teaching experience? Or prepared you to teach?
  - Would be more work on our end.
- TH: More short answers can sometimes result in fewer responses.

###### Second Meeting

- MS: Have them put their contact info if they'd like to get more involved.

### Brainstorming other subcommittee projects (Some ideas)

- CarpentryCon
- Develop training for mentors (similar to Maintainers and Trainers training)
- Coaching instructors who had “not so good” feedback on their post-workshop surveys
- Running mentoring group sessions in lieu of discussion sessions

###### Second Meeting

- ML leans more towards the 2 types of discussions versus having one with both checkouts and pre/post workshops
  - Kind of similar to women's colleges --> new instructors might need to chat with other new instructors. New instructors can briefly answer and help them think about the specific answers.
- MS: What about specific discussion topics? Live coding, not leaving students behind, other specific pedagogies
- ML: Lex is going to do exactly that --> about live coding
  - People don't necessarily want to be a mentor but they'll do something once for an hour. Or maybe they're jazzed about a specific topic.
  - Delegating engagement based on previous performance.

### Topics Carried Over

The following topics were not discussed at either meeting due to a lack of time:
- Updating the onboarding document
- Becoming more engaged with mentoring subcommittee
- Mentoring wishlist
