# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

__Date:__ 2017-12-11

__Time:__ 13:00 & 22:00 UTC

## Co-Chairs

- Jamie Hadwin (1st)
- Marian Schmidt (2nd)

## Attending

- Jamie Hadwin (1st)
- Toby Hodges (1st)
- Kari L. Jordan (1st & 2nd)
- Mark Laufersweiler (2nd)
- Marian Schmidt (2nd)

## Minutes

### Introductions

### Recap from last meeting

### Training or Steering Committees updates from last meeting

- __Training__: No training committee update this month.

- __Steering__: No steering committee update this month.
- __Mentoring Groups__ (Kari):
    - Mid-Program Survey
        - Survey link (please complete if you have not already): https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdo1uxTKCxXlTyfqvANyWu1YytAP5oB8mdGEWy_lU97DsNI3w/viewform?c=0&w=1
        - Results: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YPBj3jNV8KkL16jm8YtZiRJKigE24hntOaKMU4w5LH4/edit#gid=2089298628
        - Summary: Slack channel to interact with other mentoring group participants was requested. I created a private Slack channel today and will add participants to it. January 10th may be too early to do the showcase as some groups did not start meeting until early December. I will look into extending the program.
    - Had the check-in with mentors before I went away, thought that was a really good meeting. +1 from Jamie
    - Virtual showcase on Jan 10th. Will be sending around template slide for the groups to present at this. A representative will talk about what they did, how it helped them, etc. Would love to have a lot of community participation in this showcase. Hopefully stir up some enthusiasm for the next round!

###### First Meeting
- JH: my group's doing well so far. Pretty happy with how it's going right now.
- TH: particularly happy with the group where I'm a mentor - worked out really well with the mentee I was assigned - nice fit - and feel like I can genuinely help them and ended up being a good connection
- TH: mentee group - formed a equal dynamic between three mentees and mentors - no one mentee getting more help than others and mentees working well together
- TH: would benefit from having more participation - more specific the groups can be, more benefit from meeting new people
- JH: agree that would benefit from more participation and narrowing down focus of groups and objectives

###### Second Meeting

- ML: Hesitancy with new instructors to sign up to teach for the first time. Lots of new instructors have some imposter syndrome.
- ML had no problems teaching until the 3rd time - sometimes 1st time is fine! Also every time it's different
- ML: Important to take the thumbs up and thumbs down (stickies) seriously. Practice can really help. Grab a partner and practice can really help to improve confidence in new struct
  - Start, stop and continue.  Try it out, stop and evaluate and continue on with the lesson. Teaching online through zoom is useful but will not match the live session.
- MS: Article on new learners are better instructors. Marian should find this for Kari and new instructors!
- ML: Teaching with a very experienced instructor can also be intimidating.
    - (Marian had an experience like this - from the experienced instructor side)
- ML: Have to find their own voice when they teach. Worries less about the content but keeping it positive and keeping your voice. Scanning the room for stickies. Find that style that is your own.
- ML:  Come in enthused! Course requirements become a checklist - Curriculums are not set in stone and students can own their own experience and promote it.
- Discussion of students taking control on their own education rather than putting it all on the instructor.
- ML: What was the worst experience you had in a software carpentry workshop? And learning from this.
- MS: This would be great to ask our instructors to help break down the problem and attack it before it happens.

#### Task Force Survey Projects:

- Host Questionnaire: form for hosts to fill out after a discussion session
    - Please comment on the document here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i0Obtpb-fIuHOYS80nr1bTsLOdVnjIwmDAeLC4N4MHM/edit?usp=sharing

###### First Meeting

- JH: discussed this with Belinda and have had some feedback about how helpful this would be to hosts. Objective was to provide one-stop shop for hosts to provide info about checkouts and provide opportunity for optional feedback on particular topics/concerns that came up
- TH: was feedback concern that this was more for hosts to do?
    - (Kari: same question.)
- JH: yes. but our view is that this should actually simplify things for hosts
- TH: I would much prefer this system, and better for reportimng concerns etc than any system we've had previously.
- JH: yes, co-chairs can go through responses e.g. once a week. Can then discuss at mentoring subcommittee. Good to identify recurring topics. Google doc had got overwhelming.
- KJ: if subcommittee thinks that this is important, encourage you to keep fighting for it. Need to do whatever we can to make volunteering as easy as possible. If concensus of the committee is that this will be easier to implement then keep fighting for it! Let me know how I can help.
- JH: hopefully have this ready to roll out in the new year.
- JH: Should there be requirements for hosts?

###### Second Meeting

- ML: Would appreciate the host questionniare. Having a template would be useful, streamlined, and time efficient.
- MS: Put a note at the top that questions 1-4 are the only compulsory ones
- ML: What is the value of the note-taker then?
    - It's for supporting
- Requirements for hosts?:
    - ML: Host should have taught around 3 times. Some understanding of how the teaching environment works. Does not necessarily need to be the lead
    - MS: Not necessary for them to be lead.
    - ML: Taught in 2-3 workshops. (1 lesson in 2 different workshops). Variety of dynamics of workshops is important.
    - MS: Encourage (but not require) attendance at a mentoring meeting.

_ Community Discussion Questionnaire Preview: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdAYxfm-2IsyOzv2RjARDnpD5OjCeJNL7s9LrIr6EJ_CfjLuQ/viewform
    - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i0Obtpb-fIuHOYS80nr1bTsLOdVnjIwmDAeLC4N4MHM/edit
    - Timeline?

###### First Meeting

- JH: maybe this can help our hosts lead a more productive discussion. Pretty much ready to roll out but think we'll try to get them both out at the same time.

#### How are the discussion sessions going?

- Recruiting December/January discussion leaders! http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
    - Please remember to put your email on the etherpad when you sign up to help host instructor discussions
    - Please reach out to people who you think might want to get involved in co-hosting
    - Please be welcome to sign up as a co-host if you're pre- or de-briefing a workshop!

###### First Meeting

- TH: Was reading PyCon CoC and they have list of approaches to take if CoC is infringed upon/violated
    - this is something in the back of my mind about what would I actually do
    - would be nice to have clear guidelines as a host/instructor
    - PyCon and Carpentries CoCs match in some ways but Carpentries not as detailed about approaches
    - PyCon guidelines: https://us.pycon.org/2016/about/code-of-conduct/harassment-incidents-staff/

- TH: Could be good to include with instructor training
- JH: this came up during one of my recent discussion sessions too. as a group we discussed strategies. asked if anyone ahd had this happen. no-one had but everyone wanted to know what to do. we had group discussion and everyone was morwe confident by the end.
- JH: had two helpers on call who were attending because it was on helper checklst - good to know that they read the checklist! :+1:
- KJ: the CoC reviews/changes need to go through Steering Committee
- JH: might bring this up after the second meeting today. maybe someone form SC will be on second call? JH/MS will follow up with Christina either way!
- JH: good example of something that would be useful to include on a host questionnaire - might start test-piloting the questionnaire because this came up during mine
- TH: have discussion session(s) coming up - will try to fill in questionnaire - get some hands-on experience with it and provide more feedback if necessary
- JH: helper checklists and instructor checklists: people are using them - seeing more helpers on calls who specifically mentioned the checklist as the reason why they were there - instructors mentioning checklists
- KJ: haven't heard any examples on my end
- TH: have heard at least once of instructors reading checklists. mostly checking out trainees recently
- JH: was good to have helpers on a call. encouraged them to come and do a debrief afterwards. good to have helper perspective


- Encouraging help with taking notes/contributing on etherpad

###### First Meeting

- TH: what about sessions during Christmas/NYE break? a lot of sessions without hosts? Are we palnning to run them?
- JH: We will send email out soon. I will be able to help with many of those. But maybe scheduling around holidays is something to discuss for next year. Wondering if we should start including instructor email list for hosting too?
- KJ: that's a good idea
- TH: and trainers list?
- JH: yes, that might be good too.
- JH: I will get with Erin and ask about this
- TH: heard about experienced instructor who was interested in hosting but not sure what it entailed - include encouragement to sit in on calls (pre/post-workshops and co-hosting)
- JH: include the onboarding guide - see responisbilities of host vs co-host and refer to it.
- JH: will get these sent out soon

#### Becoming More Engaged with the Subcommittee

- Paula has started doing the weekly emails for the Discussion Session Coordinator role
  - JH: I'll email her after this to ask her to include info about the European morning discussion sessions in the email template
- Jamie will be stepping down as co-chair toward the end of the year for medical reasons - a call for a new co-chair was sent out in mid November

###### First Meeting

- JH: if you are interested, or if you know anyone who might be, get in touch/put them in touch with Jamie and Marian.
- KJ: there's an application form.
- JH: Marian has been monitoring it.


#### Mentoring Committee onboarding doc has been posted

https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/blob/master/onboarding-document.md

#### Closing Ideas

- Marian: Experimental instructor discussions once per month
    - ML & MS: 2018 wishlist = Worst case scenario and how to deal with it (anecdotes from instructors)
    - Horror stories as instructors and what tools we have to prevent them from happening.
    - What can we do better?

#### Walk-ons

###### First Meeting

- KJ: There is a question on the mentoring GitHub repo: https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/issues/31
- TH: sorry we missed this during the 1st meeting - I have since written an answer on the issue and encourage others from the SC to look through it too :)
