![The Carpentries Logo](https://software-carpentry.org/img/TheCarpentries.png)
# :memo: Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting :file_folder:

__Date:__ 2018-03-26

__Time:__ 13:00 & 22:00 UTC

## Co-Chairs

* Toby Hodges (1st meeting)
* Marian Schmidt (1st & 2nd meeting)

## :raised_hand: Attending
* Marian L Schmidt (1st)
* Toby Hodges (2nd)
* Kari L. Jordan (1st)
* Malvika Sharan (1st)
* Paula Andrea Martinez 
* Sher! (1st) 
* Heidi Perrett (2nd)
* Christina (1st, 2nd) 
* David Yakobovitch (1st) 
* Katrin (1st) 

***

### :+1: Updates from liaisons for other subcommittees:
* We are looking for a new **co-chair** of mentoring! Apply at [this link](https://goo.gl/forms/QWSEBD2yGu3Qcy8m1)
* Welcome to:
    * David Yakobovitch as the Secretary
    * Martin Dreyer as the Discussion Coordinator
    * Trainers Committee (Erin): 
        * Seventeen new Trainers have completed training and become badged!
        * The Instructor Training curriculum will be joining the Bug BBQ on April 12-13
        * (Other) The DC Social Sciences curriculum will be published at the end of April
        * (Other) The DC Geospatial curriculum will be published in June
    * Executive Council (Raniere):
        * Finalizing Executive Council's workflow and procedures for communication with the community
        * Working on new bylaws (this has been a slow process because it include almost everything)
    * On going discussion about what is a Carpentry
    * On going discussion about who is eligible for be a individual member
* A year ago it was decided that if you are trained in either DC or SwC teaching, you are allowed as instructor in any curriculum that they feel interested in
    * Malvika Sharan: Are instructors who pass the Software Carpentry program, also eligible for the Data Carpentry teaching?
    * Christina Koch: Yes, similar content and teaching methodology.
        * Katrin: And also for Library Carpentry teaching? I was asked to and I guess if the host accepts it, it's OK, isn't it?
        * Who is the member? - the eligible for voting: include everyone who is eligible as the member in the organization

***

#### :clap: Mentoring Groups (Kari): 
* Mentoring Group applications closed on March 23rd.
* For links to applications, [click here](https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/blob/master/mentoring-groups/README.md)
* Kari: Spread the word (8 current mentor applications, and 11 mentees)
* More awareness needed
* Not everyone is plugged into the channels that we use: Slack, Twitter, newletters etc.
    * Trainers should get in touch with their trainees, applications are still open
    * Applications open on a [rolling basis here](https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/blob/master/mentoring-groups/README.md), including for former mentors
* I will add mentors names/timezones/bios to this Etherpad: 
* Mentees will self-select into the mentoring group of their choice. Then mentors will contact their mentees to schedule group meetings.

***

#### :iphone: Community Calls (Christina):
* Christina is leading a small group to re-focus and lay out Software Carpentry's mission + role as a sub-organization of the Carpentries.  What are we all about?
    * Merger: SC and DC
    * Need stronger guidance for the lesson maintainers
* Curriculum Advisory committee selection
    * Optics around SC and DC
    * How SC and DC is perceived by the community
* Teaching, best practices, goals, and vision
    * Collaborative Tools for scientists around software
* Feedback and recommendations for lessons, workshops, and next steps
* Will be planning to hold some community calls and have a form for people to send in their ideas.  --> [See here](https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2018/03/community-identity.html)!
    * Planning 4 to 6 calls, over April and May
    * Resolution planned for CarpentryCon
* Plan a common community call with the TaskForce members: Belinda, Fotis and Malvika + executive

***

#### :movie_camera: New Themed discussions and how are the discussions going?

* Recruiting April discussion leaders [over here](http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion)
    * Please remember to put your email on the etherpad when you sign up to help host instructor discussions
    * If you see a new person who signed up to host/co-host with you, please reach out to them!
    * 1st meeting
        * Future Themed Discussions / Training Workshops:
            * Toby will host an April 10 Discussion Interpreting Feedback on Pre-Post Workshop Assessments
                * Another on April 20
            * Jamie will host build an Instructor Community: Advocating
            * Kari April 24
            * Marian Schmidt: Navigating Unpredictable Training Environments 
                * Kari/Marian: Considering to create a blog post on best practices and resources (pilot program)
                * Recording of themed discussions: can choose to do audio, video, and/or chat text transcript
                * March [call's minutes available:](https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/blob/master/minutes/minutes-2018-02-26.md)
    * 2nd meeting
        * 8 people at Anelda's discussion on Friday; nice size
            * Format that worked well: general questions first + then specifics about the theme for the session
            * Anelda has a lot of tips for getting money; Belinda had lots of advice about working w/ little money
                * With lots of people, not enough time for full introductions
                * Important to balance sharing experience + asking questions
                * Toby wants to have a discussion about not just using feedback + how to set up expectations
            * Themed discussion sessions started on 23rd March.
                * Trial will continue over the next few weeks
                * Sign up and encourage anyone else who you think might be interested
                * Need to update community calendar with info on these
            * Encouraging help with taking notes/contributing on etherpad

***

#### :question: Discuss the results of the instructor discussion questionnaires 
* Update on Host Questionnaire: form for hosts to fill out after a discussion session
* Questionnaire [here](https://goo.gl/forms/FWAmB2qjMx6VGn9y2)
* It automatically sends an email to checkout@carpentries.org with the list of participants from question 7. 
    * Update on Community Discussion Questionnaire
* 1st Meeting
    * [Link to the results:](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yLTy5pWbrIbwNxvD-4Ekwa5grBbeIhkXYXAkUvy4V74/edit?usp=sharing)
    * survey on instructor discussion sessions
    * 87 responses
    * Marian: Looking to increase participation, as a result of themed discussions
    * Malvika: "If you were to attend a session, what would be your primary goal?": there is an equal number of people who would "like to get feedback on becoming better instructors" and those who want to "share their experience"
        * Should there be a feedback sheet, where the second can be added in a regular basis?: something like testimonial or twitter hastag or dedicated slack channel?
            * Sher: How to find the information in such channels? Nobody wants to scroll through a long conversation. Setting a FAQs will be a great idea
            * Christina: How to record and organize experience in a useful way?
            * Requires time and organization, any suggestion on the channel?
            * Katrin: GitHub Repository to archive such issues?
            * Kari: [Resources:](https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/tree/master/mentoring-groups/resources)
            * Malvika: Curating metadata from the instructor discussion by hosting a bug BBQ on resources will be great.
            * Sher: How to prepare for the discussion session?
        * Inform your attendees: checkout link, demo session signup link etc.
            * Carpentry Slack is a free account, it doesn't store conversation:
        * Katrin: On slack account [we are limited:](https://swcarpentry.slack.com/pricing?ui_step=43&ui_element=2)
            * Marian: Question to consider:
            * How to establish cohesion between communities?
* 2nd meeting
    * Most people had heard of them
    * A lot of interest in themes/topics (something the committee is already doing!)
    * Christina: importance of connecting w/ others in community -- means something like introductions is actually quite important

***

#### :thought_balloon: Brainstorming other subcommittee projects
* CarpentryCon
* Develop training for mentors (similar to Maintainers and Trainers training)
* Coaching instructors who had "not so good" feedback on their post-workshop surveys
* Running mentoring group sessions in lieu of discussion sessions

***

#### :bulb: Closing ideas

##### :notebook: Mentoring Committee Wishlist 
* In the ideal world - what would the mentoring committee look like to you? Write your thoughts below...
* Develop bylaws - create continuity between transitions 
* Discuss how to vote for new positions 
* Who can host discussions? (Should we have requirements)
* Proposal: Read protocol and be a certified instructor
    * 1st meeting
        * Juan: I think maby a commitee partly in "flux" working on mini projects. Doing reflecting planning cycles...  Secondly, there are normal standard agenda items that will be part of a status quo.
        * What my experience is thus far is that the mentoring commitee facilitates / assist new members to join and get involved with the community as they provide opportunity to become more involved in an organic way
        * Tobin: as a well-advertised place that instructors can go to for help. I had a lot of local support, but i can see it being hard for trainers who don't have more experience geographically close.
        * Jamie: MC is a place where instructors can turn to for feedback, help, and to share problems/issues they may be facing as an instructor - MC hears these issues and works together to create solutions i.e. through Juan's suggestion of "mini projects" like the onboarding doc
        * Toby: a friendly group of people interested in making becoming/being an instructor easier and more enjoyable. It should be clear that this is a subcommittee that anyone can join, and meetings that people should feel free to drop in on, without any expectation that they will keep returning forever i.e. attendance does not equal/require "membership". (PS are we likely to change the name? It's a bit strange to me that we don't (actively) do much mentoring. This almost stopped me from coming to the meetings originally - I didn't/don't feel experienced enough to be mentoring others!)
    * 2nd meeting
        * ML: In order to build sustainability in a group - rotations are needed! Have parties (or some form of recognition) to take a moment to acknoweldge the service of our community members. 
        * EB: We can have the admin take the information 
* UPDATE TO ONBOARDING DOCUMENT: Send the names in everyone who was present in the discussion (including host and notetaker)
    * Marian: Experimental instructor discussions once per month 
    * ML & MS: 2018 wishlist = Worst case scenario and how to deal with it (anecdotes from instructors)
* Horror stories as instructors and what tools we have to prevent them from happening. 
    * What can we do better?
