# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

__Date:__ 2017-11-13

__Time:__ 22:00 UTC

## Co-Chairs

- Jamie Hadwin (1st)
- Marian Schmidt (2nd)

## Attending

- Jamie Hadwin (1st & 2nd)
- Marian Schmidt (2nd)
- Kari L. Jordan (2nd)
- Mark Laufersweiler (2nd)
- Raniere Silva (2nd)
- Juan Steyn (1st)
- Jonah Duckles (2nd)

## Minutes

### Introductions

### Recap from last meeting

#### Training or Steering Committees updates from last meeting

- __Training__ (Erin):
  - Trainers: Seventeen new Trainers have been invited to join the Trainer group and will be starting the training program soon. 
  - Maintainers: New Maintainers will be coming on board for many of the SWC/DC lessons in the next few months. The Mentoring committee may see some impacts on PR response times.
  - Lessons: The DC Genomics lessons are scheduled to be published next week (Nov 15th). There have been a lot of reorganization and structural changes. Expect to see more people teaching these coming through discussions. 
  - Applications were open for new trainers

- __Steering__: No steering committee update this month.
- __Mentoring Groups__ (Kari): https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/tree/master/mentoring-groups
  - Two of our mentors stepped down because they were mistaken about the mentors responsibilities. Would like to talk about how the information was marketed and how I can do a better job of expressing the role mentees and mentors play so that people aren't confused.
  - I updated the mentoring subcommittee pages on both Data Carpentry (http://www.datacarpentry.org/mentoring/ ) and Software Carpentry (https://software-carpentry.org/join/subcom/mentoring/ ) websites to include information about mentoring groups. Feedback welcomed.
  - I am still looking for community members to add resources to the mentoring-groups folder (https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/tree/master/mentoring-groups/resources ) - spread the word!

- Kari: Provided resources for mentors in the mentoring groups (also had resources put together)
  - Will have a check in on the 28th with the mentors
  - Save the date: Virtual showcase on January 10th --> one slide to show all that they accomplished 
  - If anyone has resources --> Please add as a pull request 
  - Sent it to the discuss list --> some people had cheat sheets and she'll probably send it around agian 

- Raniere: Any plan to have a Discourse (https://www.discourse.org/ ) for it? Email communication was a issue for my group during the first trial which could probably be minimized by having Discourse. (https://www.discourse.org/ )
  - Kari: mentoring groups were organized by timezone.  +1 (all my mentees are in my timezone)
  - Also a way to communicate here: https://groupme.com/en-US/ 
  - -1 from Raniere. Please, not yet another chat app.
  - One of my mentees liked the idea of something like a listserv - group email

Update from __first mentoring meeting today__ (Since Jamie is here with us! :)

- Instructor Checkouts
  - People are coming to discussions but not hosting workshops.  What are these barriers? How can we help overcome these barriers?
  - In a previous discussion session: a main theme were ~ 4 instructor checkouts and then a recent checkout who was hosting a new instructor. 
  - How to create resources for those who don't have strong communities - how to build community?

- Kari: one of the goals of the mentoring program is to help build community. 

- Jamie: Juan (first meeting): Some form of microgrant system --> Funding could help. There are checklists -> so we could push people towards those resources. 
  - Contact the staff at the carpentries, be up front about specific resources.
- Marian: Add to wishlist?
- Mark: Taking on the role of great plains network.  Similar boat but a little worse. They have true independence but how can we kickstart them into their first workshop. 
  - Champions call --> how to build community. What's been successfull and what hasn't been. 
  - 2pm Central time (USA) and 3pm EST 
  - Details here: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/champions
  - Experienced people coming together and providing ideas
  - Local communities and also communities around subjects --> how did the different types of carpentires form? 

#### Task Force Survey Projects: 

- __Host Questionnaire__: form for hosts to fill out after a discussion session
  - Please comment on the document here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i0Obtpb-fIuHOYS80nr1bTsLOdVnjIwmDAeLC4N4MHM/edit?usp=sharing
  - Community Discussion Questionnaire Preview: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdAYxfm-2IsyOzv2RjARDnpD5OjCeJNL7s9LrIr6EJ_CfjLuQ/viewform 
  - Timeline?

###### First Meeting

- Jamie: some feedback that the host questionnaire is not ideal or necessary - maybe some confusion on the intent to replace the current method of emailing checkout names, archive etherpad and copying to Google doc without getting any real feedback from hosts and not being able to be analyzed easily 
- Juan: could leave the option open for people to do one or the other (the current way)

###### Second Meeting

- Jonah: How to prompt people to participate in particular types of activities. We've had rapid growth and a lot of people see the discussion sessions being for new instructors.
  - We should create a culture of co-instructors joining in on the community calls 
  - This is especially true for new instructors 
- Jamie: How to get more pre-workshop participation? Right now, we usually have checkouts and post-workshops.
  - We send emails every 2 weeks and encourage people to join in on sessions. 
- Jonah: Its easier to de-brief than pre-brief.
  - Work on the pre-workshop prompts. 
- Marian: in theory, discussions could be a place to address anxieties or concern before workshops - could help with creating some of those prompts
- Jonah: For pre-briefing: we have to talk about our own inadequacies, which is very difficult. How can we get people to open up and talk more about this? 
- Mark: I'll be on Wednesday as a pre-brief in a room that they've done 10 workshops in. Making sure to show up to talk and be available. Experience as a resource as he preps and have done it a few times. What are some things that he's anxious about and knows that he doesn't have control over. 
  - Idea of giving back --> showing up at these calls (we don't have to say a lot) but we're here
- Jamie: Approaching calls differently - A lot of things that overlap with pre-workshops and debriefs. Learn something new every discussion. 
  - Mark should write a blogpost! (but he's on the hook for many other things as well)
- Jonah: Devil's advocate:  Limit of the number of attendees.  Is that undermining the richness of the conversations that we could have? Modes of leveraging the etherpads? He's had a lot of great calls with 50 or 100 people. 
  - What are the unintended consequences? 
- Mark: People will be anxious to speak up and the etherpad helps them to do that and contribute OR if we're trying to build personal relationships, if you don't speak up then you can't get noticed. How to be an inviting encouraging community and still get work done? How to break up expert bias? 
- Jamie: There was an attempt to balance the discussions for the people who volunteer to host. Some hosts are more/less comfortable with larger groups. 
- Marian: 
  1. Archiving of etherpad
  2. Often limited by the number of "experienced instructors"
- Jamie: Mark and I are on the same call this Wednesday and this could be a possibility to do. 
- Marian (etherpad - could have experimental instructor discussions once per month or something like that)
- Jonah: Christina has an example of pasting your favorite place on earth in the etherpad. 
- Jamie: That's a nice ice breaker 
- Raniere: Any plan to automate the email to pre- and post- workshop instructors? Is feasible to add it to AMY?
- Jamie: Great question Raniere! I was going to see if there was a way to do this while I was doing emails, but could be good to work with Paula/Maneesha on something like this since Paula has taken over. I also wanted to do a mail merge type email system, too. More personalized.
- Raniere: This is on my wanted Xmas gift list for more than two years. So far, looks like Santa isn't a good software developer. ;-P
- Question (Raniere): Is Paula a staff? 
- Marian: No, she's a wonderful volunteer!
- Jamie: Wonderful, wonderful volunteer!

__Host questionnaire__: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i0Obtpb-fIuHOYS80nr1bTsLOdVnjIwmDAeLC4N4MHM/edit?usp=sharing

- Mark: Incentives - what does it take for an instructor to be in good standing? Would serving as host count as still being an active instructor? 
- Jonah: We feel strongly in the leadership (Jonah initially agreed with Mark) - What replaces what and what can be credit for what. Overall we want credit to be achieveable in different ways. Mentorship is credit for community participation. 
  - Lesson developers, maintainers, infrastructors
  - Trainers, instructors, mentors (taught at least 3 times), AMY 
  - There's a broader conversation of how to recognize and encourage/thank 
  - How to do it in a way that is consistent?

#### How are the discussion sessions going?

- __Recruiting November/December discussion leaders!__ http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
  - Please remember to put your email on the etherpad when you sign up to help host instructor discussions
  - Please reach out to people who you think might want to get involved in co-hosting

###### First Meeting

- Juan: Would be nice to have an idea of how many people are going through instructor checkouts but never really getting to the point of doing workshops and why
- Juan: Is it a funding/time thing?
- Jamie: Last instructor discussion - all new instructors - main topic of discussion revolved around organizing workshops, getting community involved/aware, working with Carpentries, etc.
- Juan: Micro-Grants system to kickstart a workshop?  +1
- Jamie: Kari also mentioned that a lot of mentees in the mentoring program were seeking mentorship in this area
- Juan: There are checklists out there, but maybe not organized in the best way - hard to find if they aren't directed there

#### Becoming More Engaged with the Subcommittee

- Paula has started doing the weekly emails for the Discussion Session Coordinator role
  - JH: I'll email her after this to ask her to include info about the European morning discussion sessions in the email template
- Jamie will be stepping down as co-chair toward the end of the year for medical reasons - we will be sending out a call for a new co-chair in mid November

#### Mentoring Committee onboarding doc has been posted

https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/blob/master/onboarding-document.md
