![The Carpentries Logo](https://software-carpentry.org/img/TheCarpentries.png)
# :memo: Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting :file_folder:

__Date:__ 2018-06-25

__Time:__ 13:00 & 22:00 UTC

## :raised_hand: Attending
* Toby Hodges (1st)
* Kari Jordan (1st & 2nd)
* Belinda Weaver (2nd)
* Tobin Magle (2nd)
* Chris Erdmann (2nd)
* Mark Laufersweiler (2nd)
* Jamie Hadwin (2nd)
***

## How are the discussions going?

- Recruiting July discussion leaders! http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
  - Please remember to put your email on the etherpad when you sign up to help host instructor discussions
  - If you see a new person who signed up to host/co-host with you, please reach out to them!

###### 1st meeting

- Toby: a few host no-shows/no-one signed up to host recently. This was partly due to CarpentryCon. I arranged a few replacement sessions for those who suffered as a result of the conference. We have a similar issue coming up on the 4th July (holiday in USA).
  - We had an email to discuss recently from David, who had been unlucky enough to fall victim to two host no-shows. I've emailed him off-list to apologise and suggested organising a replacement session.
- How can we get more hosts? Not much response to the call for new hosts/blogpost published this month.
  - Blogpost here: https://carpentries.org/blog/2018/06/call-for-session-hosts/
- Kari: what if we put a call out to the mentees? we can run an onboarding next week to talk about what's involved and answer any questions that they have.
  - These will run at 13:00 and 22:00 UTC next Monday (2nd July)

###### 2nd meeting

- Kari: Focus on pulling new hosts into this subsommittee - Toby has POURED himself into this work - signed on as co-chair with Marian who had to step down, then no one responded. Toby is running it all. He is a trainer, mentor etc so he is a bit exhausted trying to get discussion hosts. Taking time away from pursuing other projects. Lots of good ideas about ways to develop instructors - no time - remove discussion session as a requirement? Run a discussion session host onboarding. Low commitment, high impact - 10 people for an hour a month.
  - Maybe continue to run onboarding monthly - so we get more rotation.
- Belinda: Can we revisit discussion sessions, requirement should be teaching demo, and getting them to teach their first workshop. propose as new thing. +1 to onboarding and let's get people to identify people in their communities who might be good.
- Tobin: Agree that discussion sessions are not meeting right purpose. Checkout. More useful when there is real experience to discuss. Logistical - can't make the times sessions are scheduled - should we revisit times? Does community know sessions are unfilled? Sign on as and host and co-host in onboarding.
- Chris: nice and relaxed. Discussion was unstructured - went in all directions. Anxiety about teaching - you don't know what to ask because you don't know what is coming. Not sure he got much out of the session - it was reassurance but not much more. Get more out of workshop if you are helping or co-hosting - learn from the instructor in person.
- Mark: Are people not wanting to host because of checkouts or in general? If it was still pre and post workshop, would we have a problem? Attending is important because of the community thing. More detailed questions. Record a bunch of the sessions and let people watch them.
- Kari: Yes still an issue - still same people. Need new people. We have demo sessions on YouTube. Like idea of discussion sessions on YouTube.
- Belinda:
  - Times - revisit the times - not always Australian-friendly. Not good for Tobin either - let's have a look.
  - Requirements - people can only attend one discussion session when they have booked that first workshop so they bring real questions. Keeps numbers down too.
  - Mentor - can we assign people checking out to an individual who helps them prepare so that takes the load off sessions. Personal mentors of groups could make their own time to meet.
- Chris: can library peope step up and assit? Look at our message?
- Tobin - pre and post debriefs - how many?
- Kari : between 0 and 2 - mostly checkouts.
- Tobin - discussions just for debrief would that encourage people?
- Kari - reporting out on wortkshop or they have come to the session with questions. Have run themed discussions. Well attended. Can't explore the without hosts.
- Jamie: participation from pre and post had declined. Responsibility for keeping discussion sessions going - not getting hosts. Marian had stepped down and now Toby is shouldering a lot. May affect participation if he has no resources.
- Mark: As group gets bigger, people less likely to volunteer. Afraid of stepping on toes, etc - message is that it is not long term. Ask individually.
- Belinda: +1 to reach out individually. Make discussion sessions more regional - ask regional leaders to take responsibility for hosting a number of sessions and finding new hosts. Regional leaders might identify the best people to step up.
- Jamie: A more regional approach might work. Marian and Jamie did not have the people knowledge for the whole world so bringing in a regional network might work. Figue out what works best locally? Assign responsbility - so it is not a bit limiting and overwhelming.
- Kari: appreciate all that you are saying !
- Belinda: Need to revisit the chjeckout process as a matter of urgency. The community may want discussion sessions but if they don't value them by stepping up to host, that that means they don't value them enough. We need a sustainable path. Even if we onboard more people, we still need to revisit checkout.
- Kari - bring up to trainers community and staff.
- Tobin: Good to see onboarding sign up - but let's also re-evaluate.  Why checkout people if they never teach? Mentoring group helpful but difficult to get a group for everyone. Benchmarks for groups would help.
- Kari: Groups now run 8-9 weeks and there is onboarding for mentors around setting goals.
- Jamie: Motivation to complete cert and teach 1st workshop - don't have to go hand in hand. Incentives from training workshops building 1st workshop. Still a lot of confusion about identity of Carpentries - might be why ...
- Belinda: effort. We shouldn't put effort into something that doesn't get you anywhere. Many people do not go on to teach. We should tie attending a discussion to preparing to teach their first workshop. and +1 to Jamie.
- Kari: Lots of people from member orgs send people for training who may never teach. We can't get away from that. They want to apply skills locally.
- Chris: I second messaging comments about Carpentries. Trying to explain to people what mergers mean. Write a post about how links together.
- Belinda: Can we revisit times of sessions and also maybe time of subcommittee meeting.
- Kari: Yes. Maybe a poll.


__How should we organise/announce more themed discussion sessions?__

###### 1st meeting

Toby: Hold off on organising more themed sessions until we have found more hosts.
