# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee

Date: Monday, July 11
* 1PM PDT (Western N. America)
* 4PM EDT (Eastern N. America)
* 8PM UTC
* 6AM + 1 day (Brisbane)

Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/356620434

THIS ETHERPAD WILL BE ARCHIVED ON https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/ THAT IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.

## Sign In

Attending
* Christina Koch
* Maneesha Sane
* Raniere Silva
* Marian Schmidt
* Erin Becker
* Tiffany Timbers

Apologies
* Rayna Harris
* Kate Hertweck

## Agenda

Introductions

Recap since past meeting
* Nothing to report

Main agenda items
* Roadmap for the mentoring committee --> Delegated to Bill last time, no updates this week, if you're interested in volunteering to help write, email Christina
* Instructor discussion sessions: the big picture
	* Balance of data-gathering vs. discussion
		* Primary goal: serve people attending the sessions.  Questions are useful, host to guide discussion is important, notes are less important. 
		* Help promote community, don't want notes to disrupt.  Q: How to collect as much useful data as possible w/o disrupting discussion? 
	* How we manage the etherpad and take notes
		* Useful to have a second person. Dedicated note-taker vs dedicated discussion-leader. 
		* Take notes as you choose, but some suggestions to help with analyzing them later: 
			* label who said what
			* other ideas?  
	* Notes can be helpful for new instructors --> see archives discussion under walk-ons
	* When assessment specialist is hired, could be part of these discussions.  Assessment specialist wouldn't be starting until mid-August. 
* Instructor discussion sessions: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
	* How are things going? Any tips or feedback to share with the group?  
	* Join any session you like as a host or co-host! 
	* Standing agenda item: suggestions for questions to add to the discussion session agenda
		* Specific instructor requests for resource library videos (to replace questions on communications after two weeks?) 
		* Example discussion: https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-training/issues/198
	* Have other people (not debriefing, pre-briefing)

Walk-ons: please add additional topics below
* Analysis of first set of discussion data
	* Beth Duckles and Erin have been "coding" the notes from discussion session
	* Erin went through the coded notes, found themes and identified potential action items (shared w/ people in meeting, will go out to mentoring committee after)
	* Method: classify notes using a codebook, find which things emerge as common themes
	* Use numbers (exactly how often) did topics appear - will be easier with more data!  
	* Possible to distinguish self-organized + admin-organized? SWC vs DC? --> Depends on how you take notes (see discussion above)
	* Possibly restructure discussion in the future to better facilitate discussion
	* We can use this in the future to drive discussion
	* Aleksandra to email Erin software for qualitative data analysis
* Add note about viewing archives to discussion etherpad
	* options: etherpad, google doc, github
	* At least start with finding history of etherpad --> for Maneesha to do
	* Google Doc - make it publically as read only and then give specific people write-access --> for Erin to do
* still working on blog post from bug bbq - sorry this is taking so long!