# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: Monday, April 18

First Round:10:00 EDT (New York time)  (14:00 UTC)

Second Round: 19:00 EDT (New York time) (23:00 UTC)

## Sign In

Attending (First round)
* Rayna Harris
* Kate Hertweck
* Phil Rosenfield -- sorry something came up and I can no longer make it
* Marian Schmidt
* Tracy Teal

Attending (Second round)
* Tiffany Timbers
* Apology from Belinda Weaver - will be in a training session ;-)
* Bill Mills
* Rayna Harris
* Jason Williams

## Agenda
* Confirm agenda + choose note-taker
* Recap since past meetings
* Main agenda items
	* Meeting time change?
	* Discussion section update: new questions, new times, leadership, volunteers, recruiting more folks from the community to help
	* "Shepherd" proposal (see below): confirming interest + proposal scope, brainstorming implementation, deciding on final name
* Walk-ons: please add additional topics below
	* Rayna: discuss creating a webapge or nice markdown file about the mentoring committee with relevant information (who, when, what, why, etherpad links).  Some of this is in the https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/master/subcommittees/mentoring but I don't think the uniniated will ever find this folder.  I'd like to be able to share what we do with 1 hyperlink.
	* Rayna's Update:  Here is my first draft for your review: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/raynamharris-patch-1-2/subcommittees/mentoring/README.md

## Post Workshop Debriefing Sessions (last ones in this format)

* Morning etherpad: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/swc-debriefing-morning
* Afternoon etherpad: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/swc-debriefing-evening

Need two committe members present for each session 

Need volunteer for April 19

Morning (10:00 EDT):  

Evening (19:00 EDT, 23:00 UTC): 

## Pre Workshop Help Sessions (replaced by combined discussion section next week)

* http://pad.software-carpentry.org/pre-workshop-evening
* http://pad.software-carpentry.org/pre-workshop-morning

## Discussion Section updates

Draft of new discussion section questions/guidelines: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion

More information about how to run discussions: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/100

How to manage checkout for new instructors? Two options being floated:
    1. Hosts ask a subset of rubric questions to newly trained instructors
    2. Newly trained instructors must ask at least one question +1 for simplicity // Goal is meet the community / +1+1
    concerns: important for host to include new trainees in conversation
** here is the procedure: https://github.com/k8hertweck/board/blob/instructor-discussion/subcommittees/mentoring/procedure-discussion-session.md

Notes: 
* Go with option 2 above (need to update PR)
* Start combined sessions next week
* etherpad has been updated
* Christina to send followup email with list of logistical issues
* Sending email invites? Every two weeks, ask Maneesha? eventually automate through AMY?
* What do we want the email schedule to be? --> Christina, Tracy + volunteers to coordinate w/ Maneesha; maybe personalized emails?
* Alternate routes to advertise: tweets? advertise calendar?  
* Hosts
	* only one experienced host per session (invite new members of mentoring subcommittee to help host and increase capacity)
	* 2 hosts: hopefully one from the mentoring committee + another volunteer
* Are we using 
	* Google Hangouts?: more convenient, limit of 10 people
	* Bluejeans? 
* How do we schedule volunteers? --> commit to hosting once every few weeks, schedule a month in advance
* getting more volunteers: 
	* discuss / blog post / lab meeting, call for volunteers to sit in and host
	* hosts could also do individual invites

## Shepherding Proposal
 
Instructor training is a key way we grow our community. But it is also a sizeable task – it requires time, effort, preparation and follow up. To ensure it is worth it, it is important that the resources committed produce the right results – a new, committed crop of Software Carpentry instructors.
 
Yet our own statistics show that many people who train never teach.
 
Accordingly , I think we need to do two things:
1.       Develop a more stringent process upfront about who gets accepted for training
2.       ‘Shepherd’ trainees towards completion.
 
For reasons of space, I won’t address 1. here. This is my plan to address 2.
 
What: The shepherd takes responsibility for helping a specific cohort of instructor trainees to complete the requirements for certification. The helping consists of

·         Meeting (in person or virtually) all attendees in the cohort on the last day of training
·         Contacting those people via email to advise them of the next steps
·         Creating an etherpad or web page where these next step tasks are listed
·         Emailing those details to the cohort periodically and reminding them of deadlines
·         Following up weekly to check on progress
·         Talking people through any doubts or fears they might have that are preventing them for completing
·         An additional step could be hosting practice teaching sessions to help trainees become more confident about the material (this worked amazingly well in Brisbane and got heaps of people motivated – and certified)
 
When: The shepherding takes place after instructor training, but before attendees are certified.
 
Who: The shepherd could be any of the following:
·         A community member who strongly wants a local instructor pool
·         ​The person who organised the training in the first place
·         Someone who wants to mentor occasionally but can’t commit to regular slots
·         Representative from partner site (where the instructor training is being run exclusively for a partner)
·         Community volunteer
 
Each training cohort would need a shepherd.

Constant, open lines of communication between new instructors + the Software Carpentry / Data Carpentry community

Concerns: 
* cloning Belinda :)
* local shepherds preferred, but may not always be possible if moving into new countries

Benefits: 
* important for training in foreign countries
* great to have local support

What do we need to make this happen?  
* shepherd wrangler
* clear guidelines, someone to help the shepherds
* how do we find/setup shepherds for training? 
* confirm that shepherd has taught 2(?) workshops
* interface with instructor training folks a lot! coordinate introduction of shepherd with whoever is doing the training (introduce as early as possible)
* email to trainers so they know what's going on (enlist Aleksandra.  :))

Coordinators of the shepherds will need to: 
* contact w/ Jonah and/or Greg and/or Tracy about upcoming trainings, making sure shepherds are in place
* otherwise supporting those people
* develop shepherding checklist

Volunteers to be coordinators
* DC person (new associate director)
* talk to Greg?
* Aleksandra / Belinda? 

Names for the program: consideration (this might go on a CV/resume for someone)
* shepherd +1 RH
* champion +1 TT +1BM
* cheerleader! (but this isn't any better)
* supporter
* skipper
* guide +1 RH +1 TT +BM
* mentor
* adviser

## Mentoring Committee page

Based on stuff at board/subcommittees/mentoring https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/master/subcommittees/mentoring
Options: 
* create a README: link to calendars, etherpads, how to join
* links for instructors on DC/SWC website? 
* add page to website (SWC) --> Bill volunteers!  

What do we need to make this happen? 
* draft PR for readme
	* volunteers: Rayna has written, please add comments!
	* https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/raynamharris-patch-1-2/subcommittees/mentoring/README.md
* update roles.md --> slightly separate issue
* move minutes to subdirectory (also separate issue) +1 Christina will do this


## Working space until next meeting:

Are you interested in changing the mentoring meeting time(s)?  Indicate w/ +1:
    Yes: +1*
    No:  
    Indifferent / flexible: +1

*'yes' as in, I would prefer to change to one meeting time; otherwise I just miss out on what half of the committee has to say. +1

Would it be possible to narrow it to an hour?

Possible scheduling for (combined) instructor discussion sessions:

Wednesday April 13:

10:00 EDT, 15:00 UTC: Rayna Harris

20:00 EDT, 0:00 UTC

Tuesday April 19: 

10:00 EDT, 15:00 UTC Rayna Harris

20:00 EDT, 0:00 UTC

Wednesday April 27:

10:00 EDT, 15:00 UTC

20:00 EDT, 0:00 UTC

Tuesday May 3:

10:00 EDT, 15:00 UTC

20:00 EDT, 0:00 UTC

Rayna: try alternating morning/evening calls to cover multiple timezones

Raniere: use multiple days (not all on Monday)

Sheparding Discussions
http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2016/03/proposal-instructor-trainees.html