# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

__Date:__ 2018-02-26

__Time:__ 13:00 & 22:00 UTC

## Co-Chairs

- Toby Hodges (1st meeting)
- Marian Schmidt (1st & 2nd meeting)

## Attending

- Marian L Schmidt (1st & 2nd meeting)
- Toby Hodges (1st meeting)
- Malvika Sharan (1st meeting)
- Paula Andrea Martinez (2nd meeting)
- Erin Becker (2nd meeting)
- Tobin Magle (2nd meeting)
- Kari L. Jordan (1st & 2nd meeting)
- Kayleigh Lino (1st meeting)
- Jamie Hadwin (1st meeting)
- Erika Mias (1st meeting)
- Anelda van der Walt (1st meeting)
- Tracy Teal (2nd meeting)

### Introductions & Check in questions:
To start off the meeting: Please answer one of the 4 following questions, with the 5th as optional:

1. What's new?
2. What's exciting?
3. What's bothering you?
4. What have you thought about from last meeting?
5. Describe your mood in one sentence (optional follow-up).

### Updates from liaisons for other subcommittees:

#### Trainers Committee (Erin)

- No changes to instructor checkout requirements. Blog post with details of the conversations around these issues to come out in next few days.

###### First Meeting

###### Second Meeting

- EB: hosted a recent instructor training in South Africa with 3 trainers. A very smooth experience and nice to teach with 3 first time trainers.
- EB: Lots of thoughtful discussion about each of the steps of instructor checkouts. General consensus on specific changes and what they would look like. 
- EB: Minor change to who can do a teaching demo policy
- EB: Blogpost that details conversation and online records of the conversations (meeting minutes). 
- EB: How to focus conversations on following up conversations for a more efficient checkout process.
 - Lesson contribution: do not remove the requirement but rather have better communication between maintainers and new instructors. (To lessen the burden on maintainers)
- EB: About to release the first 2 Spanish translations! (Git & shell) - R Gapminder coming soon!
- New instructors from Mexico and larger communication about that 
- Link to lessons:
  - Git: https://github.com/swcarpentry/git-novice-es
  - Shell: https://github.com/swcarpentry/shell-novice-es
  - MLS: Will we be seeing the new instructors at discussions?
  - EB: Not for checkout but most likely when they go to teach as they already completed instructor checkout.
- Really low checkout rates for instructor checkouts in Africa and this is a way to address it. 
  - MLS: Will there be future instructor trainings in Africa/South Africa soon?
  - EB: Another instructor training in a year. Might be another in Sept./October

#### Steering Committee (Christina)

- Technically, the SWC/DC steering committees have now dissolved  there's a new committee as part of the merged "Carpentries"
See a list of current steering committee members here: https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2017/12/executive-council-2018.html
- Will need to work out a way to facilitate communication between subcommittees like this  the organization/steering committee

#### Mentoring Groups (Kari)

- Mentoring groups will be back in April.

###### First Meeting

- Kari: I'd like for people who've been through instructor training to have an opportunity to sign up to the mentoring program
  - New learners:
    - Page with mentors, time zone, click a button to be in a specific mentoring group
    - Some mentors could lead one or multiple mentoring groups
    - Join group and do all the same typical mentoring group
  - Seasoned learners
    - Open mentoring slots (similar to mentoring discussion) with specific topics 
      - How to delegate workshop tasks 
      - How to do pull requests
- KJ: Any tools or resources?
- TH: We have discussed this before and an overlap with these ideas. A google form could be used to sign up. How will timing match up from people doing instructor checkouts and signing up for these sessions?
- KJ: Something need to be time-bound for both mentor and mentee's sake. Timing of 4 months.
  - Example: People wanted to get involved but mentoring groups were already underway. How can we involve these people (and not lose them) while we're waiting for a next group to come along
-  Marian: how would we pick the topics for seasoned learners?
  -  KJ: so far the ideas I have come from the post-mentoring group survey. will compile this and bring to a future mentoring subcommittee meeting.
  -  KJ: some topics can be repeated
  -  TH: Could you compile a list of topics and we can discuss this at the March mentoring meeting?
-  TH: If there's a new person who wants to join in a mentoring group kind of late in the game --> they could join an initial group. Though some circumstances this might be difficult

###### Second Meeting

-  Team page of Software Carpentry: https://software-carpentry.org/team/
  -  Could make one for mentors 
-  KJ: The mentoring groups couldn't take on new mentees midway through the program. Kari and Malvika had a great discussion and ways to create opportunities for new mentees immediately.
  -  Potential solution: Discussions on specific topics.
    -  Could include a list of mentors
    -  Times when the mentoring sessions
  -  Potential issue: Lack of mentors/hosts
  - KJ: What do people think? 
  - TM: The "hop in" model is a good one. Tobin was a mentor this past group. Long term groups aren't necessarily better than shorter term groups
  -  KJ: Potential mentors/mentees who come halfway through a mentoring program could join these open groups. 
    -  How to interpret feedback
    -  how to build community
-  EB: Thanks for putting together this model. I like the idea of particular topics. It's like a hybrid between discussions (one time meeting) and mentoring groups. Important to not have to hosts compete between instructor discussions, mentoring groups. I like this idea but before starting it - what's the capacity for running all three programs.
  -  EB: Any idea of who is interested in signing up for these sessions?
  -  KJ: I'll do a call for mentors and have an info session. In the post mentoring group survey, Kari has a list of people who are interested. Kari will present the two mentoring groups. If there's not enough mentors then put it on the back burner
-  MLS:
-  TH: Is there a specific place where new instructors can go to get the answers for FAQs?
-  EB: Yes, it's currently very large and unwieldly. Working now to build a resources for trainers, maintainers, and for instructors. Maneesha and Erin working together on this. 
-  EB: Something to be said about the face to face personal discussions but like the idea of mixing some of the topic specific and standard 
  -  Could pilot specific topics - take current sessions and test it out
  -  Shouldn't be two separate places
  -  Question: Communication strategies for mentors/hosts and making it clear that they're different from current instructor discussions
    -  List of potential topics 
    -  Offer some more guidance on how to prepare 
-  KJ: I'm down with everything Erin just said. Is this an effort that the mentoring subcommittee wants to lead? Second: mentoring onboarding for mentors. A checklist and 
-  TT: Getting the same questions over and over again. Important that we see that. Has notes and a code book from previous discussions. 
-  MLS: Host/mentoring requirements has been a topic of the past but lack of hosts has made us be more lenient. Maybe have specific resources or more structure in the discussions at the beginning of the 
-  KJ: I'm on team resources. Having content that they can pull from could be great. 
-  TT: Agreed. If you think something and you look it up and it's the same its validating. 
-  KJ: Great idea to talk to Toby. Draft emails can be sent out (Kari's on it!) Easy to add things to the newsletter. Ideally this is a community driven approach. Kari can help with the bandwidth (announcing and some details). 
-  MLS: It would be great if Toby, Kari and Marian can discuss a more concrete plan and then bring to the March mentoring committee
-  EB: Small pilot sometime soon would be great - could be a quick information gathering - before doing all of the logistics. A way to check if it floats. 
-  KJ: Towards the end of march we could pilot. Marian, Toby, Jamie/Martin and plan how this would look. 
  -  Fill in the etherpad now.





### How are the discussion sessions going?

- Recruiting February/March discussion leaders! http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
- Please remember to put your email on the etherpad when you sign up to help host instructor discussions
- If you see a new person who signed up to host/co-host with you, please reach out to them!

###### First Meeting

-  Jamie: adding April sessions today!

### Dissemination of two questionnaires (Community discussion & host)

- __It's happening!!!__ Host Questionnaire: form for hosts to fill out after a discussion session
- Questionnaire here: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/14lhvSviLMikgidMyBke-cheBiD73_FoorDLso3KfViY/edit?usp=sharing
  - It automatically sends an email to checkout@carpentries.org with the list of participants from question 7.
- Community Discussion Questionnaire to be sent out
  -  survey is here: https://goo.gl/forms/DKq7Lb1DaPuaSmXi1
  -  collecting data about discussion sessions to inform future plans for the sessions

### Brainstorming other subcommittee projects (Some ideas)

###### First Meeting
- CarpentryCon
- Develop training for mentors (similar to Maintainers and Trainers training)
- Coaching instructors who had "not so good" feedback on their post-workshop surveys
- Running mentoring group sessions in lieu of discussion sessions
  -  1st Meeting
    -  Kari: I think Erin and Tracy will present some ideas in second meeting
      -  Instructors teach their workshops - they get their workshop results and the Carpentries doesn't say what they mean or how they can improve. 
        -  Kari is working on a report with the results of the post workshop survey and here's how to interpret them and also resources and opportunities. 
        -  all positive feedback 
        -  Would be an automated report
        -  If interested - let Kari know 
      -  Idea for groups: Interpreting this data
    -  Kari: Another idea - a webinar series. Call for presenters from the community. Call for speakers with abstracts. This could be another community building piece with a webinar series. We need to offer more to our instructors. Webinar series could be a great way where they don't have to do anything and could show up and soak up great info. 

###### Second Meeting
-	 Kari: Develop training for mentors similar to Maintainers onboarding (https://carpentries.github.io/maintainer-onboarding/) and/or Trainers onboarding (https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/0B2Xc7BrFgkvULUVVcTMyWlhSbE0)

### Topics Carried Over/Mentoring Committee Wishlist

-  In the ideal world - what would the mentoring committee look like to you? Write your thoughts below...
  -  Develop bylaws - create continuity between transitions 
  -  Discuss how to vote for new positions 
  -  Who can host discussions? (Should we have requirements)
  -  Proposal: Read protocol and be a certified instructor

###### First Meeting

-  Juan: I think maybe a committee partly in "flux" working on mini projects. Doing reflecting planning cycles...  Secondly, there are normal standard agenda items that will be part of a status quo.
-  What my experience is thus far is that the mentoring committee facilitates / assist new members to join and get involved with the community as they provide opportunity to become more involved in an organic way
-  Tobin: as a well-advertised place that instructors can go to for help. I had a lot of local support, but I can see it being hard for trainers who don't have more experience geographically close.
-  Jamie: MC is a place where instructors can turn to for feedback, help, and to share problems/issues they may be facing as an instructor - MC hears these issues and works together to create solutions i.e. through Juan's suggestion of "mini projects" like the onboarding doc
-  Toby: a friendly group of people interested in making becoming/being an instructor easier and more enjoyable. It should be clear that this is a subcommittee that anyone can join, and meetings that people should feel free to drop in on, without any expectation that they will keep returning forever i.e. attendance does not equal/require "membership". (PS are we likely to change the name? It's a bit strange to me that we don't (actively) do much mentoring. This almost stopped me from coming to the meetings originally - I didn't/don't feel experienced enough to be mentoring others!)
-  TH: Strategies/protocol for handling breaches of CoC?
-  JH, also had some people in recent discussion session bring this up
-  KJ: There is a question on the mentoring GitHub repo: https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/issues/31
-  TH: sorry we missed this during the 1st meeting - I have since written an answer on the issue and encourage others from the SC to look through it too :)

###### Second Meeting

-  ML: In order to build sustainability in a group - rotations are needed! Have parties (or some form of recognition) to take a moment to acknowledge the service of our community members. 
-  EB: We can have the admin take the information 
  -  UPDATE TO ONBOARDING DOCUMENT: Send the names in everyone who was present in the discussion (including host and notetaker)
-  Marian: Experimental instructor discussions once per month 
-  ML & MS: 2018 wishlist = Worst case scenario and how to deal with it (anecdotes from instructors)
  -  Horror stories as instructors and what tools we have to prevent them from happening. 
  -  What can we do better?	

### CarpentryCon (Malvika)
-  TH: Opportunities for mentoring at carpentry con? What is currently planned for the event itself and how can mentoring chime in?
-  MS: Links in chat: Dublin in May. Anelda will be a speaker!
  -  CarpentryCon - Building Locally, Connecting Globally: http://www.carpentrycon.org/
  -  CarpentryCon etherpad: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/2018carpentrycontaskforce
  -  Volunteer Responsibilities (on-campus and off-campus): https://piratenpad.de/p/CarpentryCon_ToDo

###### First Meeting
- MS: if you're interested in joining but don't have any funding, please get in touch with the CC Taskforce and we want to try to make sure that you can be involved.
  -  Small group discussions
    -  For example 1/2 old and 1/2 new members of the community
  -  Themed tables during breakouts e.g. RSEs, Europe, America, etc., plus one for the mentoring subcommittee
  -  chance for discussion and to collect ideas
  -  flashcards to prompt discussion and encourage people to leave ideas
    -  third link above to basic TODO list
  -  summarizing/documenting sessions
  -  social media
  -  accessibility assistance
  -  leaving comments
-  MS: Have one (or more posters) so that people can see the impact of mentoring. Kari has statistics on this. With some contact information
-  TH: A great way to generate ideas for mentoring
-  MS: Toby and Kari are running a workshop on mentoring!
-  TH: Still need to figure out the details 
-  MS: Belinda and Sher have been working very hard to organize funding from sponsors

###### Second Meeting

-  TT: Important for newbies to be included and welcomed. People involved in mentoring can be involved as volunteers. Do not necessarily have to spearhead something but to be available. 
  -  100-250 potential attendees
-  EB: Optimistic 400 (opportunity to upgrade space)

### African Taskforce

###### First Meeting
-  Kayleigh: Had a meeting last week with the African Carpentry community. Met and discussed how to take the task force forward. What exactly would the task force do
  -  found that a lot of what we think we should be doing is mentoring
  -  3 areas:
    -  mentoring
    -  workshop organization (admin)
    -  Sustainability and advocacy (funding, etc.)
  -  KL: 1st: Would like to run an initial online demo workshop session. One lesson per week for a period of 8 weeks. (one morning session) for newly trained instructors in Africa. The number of people who go through instructor training and then do not teach a workshop. Need to address this and get them instructing workshops.
  -  KL: 2nd: Will run pre-workshop meetings - before every workshop that happens and be mentors 
  -  KL: 3rd: Signing up for the mentoring groups that Kari runs. Kayleigh would like to sign up and have better mentors in the African task force. 
-  AVDW: Instructors can often only teach one of the lessons. It's more efficient to have instructors teach more than one tool. Especially financially and geographically. People will sign up as individuals and have a maximum of 5 people. Will budget time for troubleshooting. Would be helpful for instructors that don't have good technical support. 
  -  First come first serve? or Specific people? 
    -  Leaning towards specific people so there's a more likely chance for success. 
-  AVDW: No African task force coordinator (Anelda's been playing that role). Put out a call for people to join a task force. Found money and Erika and the 2 of them will take on the administration and others will do more mentoring. 
  -  8 people currently on the task force. 
-  TH: 
-  AVDW: How to do the online teachings? Run the data carpentry workshops. Once a week at the same time 1.5 hours before lunch on a Tuesday.
-  Marian: having a teleconference for attending a workshop. e.g. virtual helper/observer to see how a workshop is run/organized.
-  Anelda: had one training with instructor calling in from Cambridge. But most of our venues aren't suitable for this because e.g. you can't see instructor & screen together, Unreliable WiFi, etc.
-  Marian: I taught a workshop with non-ideal room. we had one student who called in by teleconference. Used extra laptop put in front row. Use links in etherpad and view screen through laptop camera.
-  Anelda 
-  TH: Screen sharing with coding sessions. They share their screen. (Using life-size instead of zoom). When sharing screen there's a bar that says "Screen sharing on".

###### Second Meeting

-  EB: 8 people (mostly in South Africa but also other countries) and spearheaded by Anelda van der Walt. There's also been other workshops outside of South Africa. How to expand current carpentry community and support each other? How to better integrate into the broader carpentry community?
  -  EB: Anelda and Erin strongly encouraged new instructors to apply for funding to go to CarpentryCon.
-  MLS: How can mentoring support these more intentional groups? Maybe linked up with Mark's Champions group?
-  EB: new instructors that feel great about pedagogy but not so much about actual teaching. Will run online workshop spread over several days to help solidify knowledge of the material. 
  -  EB: Specific onboarding sessions for lesson domains.
  -  EB: Mentoring subcommittee would like to play a role going forward? 
  -  EB: First would be genomics onboarding. But there are not a large group of instructors comfortable teaching them. 
-  TT: A list of types of things
