# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: Monday, March 28

First Round:10:00 EDT (New York time)  (14:00 UTC)

Second Round: 19:00 EDT (New York time) (23:00 UTC)

## Sign In
 
Attending (First round)
* Tiffany Timbers
* Kate Hertweck
* Karin Lagesen
* Phil Rosenfield
* Raniere Silva
* David Yakobovitch
* Maneesha Sane
 
Attending (Second round)
* Belinda Weaver
* Rayna harris
* Kate Hertweck
* Raniere Silva
 
 
## Agenda
* Confirm agenda + choose note-taker
* Data Gathering
	* if you haven't already, please fill out this form: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1eDLPShSyQPJKZ8jRr8VHQSaV_CxVvQOdGTSJHo6dOWg/viewform
	* and this spreadsheet: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1in5KnkD8H0XQ-IwZM4fe2rYNPEmvr2miT13ElKfmkD4/
* General discussion of vision and goals for the committee, including,
	* relationship w/ instructor training, including merging of various help/discussion sessions
		* goal: helping newly trained instructors getting their badges
	* our mission and related deliverables
		* summarize currently implemented activities
	* structure of mentoring sub-committee (possibly relates to recent steering committee discussions)
* Introductions + goals/interests
	* Ariel: helping professional development of folks moving between job stages
	* David: ready to help (yay!)
	* Karin: bolstering instructor training, transitioning folks from training to actually instructing
	* Kate: developing written resources for instructors
	* Maneesha: helping new instructors 
	* Phil: maintain involvement with helping instructors (since travel to teach workshops is difficult)
	* Raniere: connections with assessment subcommittee
	* Tiffany: participation in various discussion sessions, integrating helpers in community
	* Christina: our chair! keeping us on track and organizing activities
* Generate action items from previous discussion
* Other business
	* Debriefing/pre-workshop help session sign-up
	* Confirm SCF liason from mentoring committee
	* Change meeting time/frequency?
* Walk-ons: please add additional topics below
 
 
## Vision and Possible Activities
 
Christina's goals: prioritize the following and have a discussion about what we can realistically accomplish (given people-power) and how to proceed

* Support for new instructors from end of training -> first workshop teaching
	* "Shepherding" program
		* have someone responsible for helping encourage newly trained instructors by checking up on them and facilitating completion of checkout
	* Personal invitations to teach, promise of experienced instructors at first workshop
	* Link instructor training to workshop (use muliple workshops if training lots of people in one location)
		* this was already required for one of the open calls last year
		* how to incorporate shepherding (as above)? is this part of mentoring subcommittee?
		* offering resources for folks applying is really important, but this can be a bit much to expect of our volunteers
		* coordinating with folks outside of this committee as potential shepherds
* Support for current instructors + community building generally (subgoal: supporting self-organization)
	* continue with debriefing sessions
	* have generalized discussion sections? lesson discussion sessions? 
	* one-off events, like the instructor/helper retreat
	* sessions on "how to submit a PR"
	* improving teaching resources, especially instruction material, notes, challenges, etc. 
* Develop pathways for helpers into the SWC community
	* ...?
* Instructor discussion sessions: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/subcommittees/mentoring/procedure-debriefing-session.md
	* how do we make sure new instructors have a deep understanding of lesson material if the sessions are combined?
	* main goal: do these sessions help with community building?
	* How to schedule these? still 8 meetings a month?
* Committee organization ideas
	* How do we define committee involvement
		* Ariel: limit geographically, so more overlap with current responsibilities (we could have 2 (one from each geo region) for each sub-sub-committee?)
		* Should we develop badges for different roles in mentorhship? Debrief host badge? Shepherd badge?
	* Use the idea of task forces being discussed by steering committee?
	* Define roles and how to find volunteers
		* create clear pathways to contribution
		* Shepherd coordinator: write down model
		* finding volunteers: use data from AMY
		* come up with candidates as a group
	* One goal: write up what we've accomplished.  :)
 
Ongoing challenge: getting data about what is/isn't working for community members, gathering feedback
 
## Post Workshop Debriefing Sessions 

Morning etherpad: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/swc-debriefing-morning

Afternoon etherpad: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/swc-debriefing-evening
 
Need two committe members present for each session 
 
1. Need volunteer for April 5
	1. Morning (10:00 EDT):  Christina Koch
	1. Evening (20:00 EDT, 00:00 UTC): Belinda Weaver
 
Pre Workshop Help Sessions 

http://pad.software-carpentry.org/pre-workshop-evening

http://pad.software-carpentry.org/pre-workshop-morning
 
1. Need volunteer for April 13
	1. Morning (10:00 EST): Karin, Kate
	1. Evening (19:00 EST): Kate, Tiffany
 
Possible scheduling for (combined) instructor discussion sessions:

- Rayna: try alternating morning/evening calls to cover multiple timezones
- Raniere: use multiple days (not all on Monday)

* Wednesday April 13:
	* 10:00 EDT, 15:00 UTC
	* 20:00 EDT, 0 UTC
* Tuesday April 19: 
	* 10:00 EDT
	* 20:00 EDT, 0 UTC
* Wednesday April 27:
	* 10:00 EDT
	* 20: EDT
* Tuesday May 3:
	* 10 EDT
	* 20 EDT