# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 19/10/2015

Times: 5pm GMT and 9pm UTC.

## Attending

### Afternoon

-   Christina Koch
-   Daniel Chen
-   Raniere Silva

### Evening

-   Kate Hertweck
-   Raniere Silva
-   Tiffany Timbers

## Apologies

-   Belinda Weaver
-   Bill Mills
-   Carol Willing
-   Jonah Duckles
-   Karin Lagesen
-   Mariela Perignon
-   Michael Sarahan
-   Phil Rosenfield
-   Rayna Harris
-   Sheldon McKay
-   Sue McClatchy
-   Tracy Teal

## Actions

## Past Actions

## Post Workshop Debriefing Sessions

-   Need volunteer for October 27
    -   Morning (10:00 EDT): Kate Hertweck Tiffany Timbers
    -   Evening (19:00 EDT): Raniere Silva
-   Need volunteer for November 10
    -   Morning (10:00 EDT): Kate Hertweck Rayna Harris
    -   Evening (19:00 EDT): Christina Koch
-   Need volunteer for November 24
    -   Morning (10:00 EDT): Tiffany Timbers Rayna H
    -   Evening (19:00 EDT):
-   Need volunteer for December 8 (this will be the last one in 2015)
    -   Morning (10:00 EDT): Tiffany Timbers
    -   Evening (19:00 EDT):
-   Need volunteer for January 12 (this will be the first one in 2015)
    -   Morning (10:00 EDT):
    -   Evening (19:00 EDT):

DC: Why all the debriefing are on Tuesday.

RS: Because we start on Tuesday.

DC: Tuesday are bad days for me.

RS: The post from the last debriefing sessions will be online soon.

## (Virtual) Instructor Retreat Planning

Date: November 14th

Site: https://swcarpentry.github.io/instructor-retreat-2015/

Announcement/Blog post: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/09/instructor-helper-retreat.html

TT: I and Bill will have a call with people leading the sites. Also have another call with people with global sessions to avoid problems.

## Instructor Training

Announcement: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/09/rebooting-instructor-training.html

8 week online training starts next week, participants already selected and invited.

### Selection of groups for the two-day version

Pull request: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/53

### Mentoring New Instructors + Mini-Lessons

CK: I and Karin worked to clean the document.

RS: Karin is getting the numbers of instructors that could be mentors.

CK: What are the criteria?

RS: Taught 3 workshops in the past 12 months.

CK: Maybe 2 workshops in past 12 months?  Three seems like a lot to me.  Something to discuss? 

RS: I'm OK with 2.

CK: Can Karin still share the proposal in progress, to get comments while we're waiting to hear how many people are eligible for mentoring?

RS: Yes.

### Extra topics

#### Workshop surveys

Previous post instructor survey: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2014/11/new-instructor-post-assessment-questionnaire.html

DC: How should we adapt this to the assessment committee round of post workshop questions for instructors?

RS: Yes.

DC: The survey could be on Google Form because of some limitations.  Re-did survey in Survey Monkey, instead of Google Docs.  When assessment group was formed, focus was first on participant experience.  Now returning to post-assessment of instructors.  Currently have set of questions for debriefing sessions: 

-   The list of questions are on https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/50 .
-   Use these questions as part of the survey, figure out a way to get that data to the debriefing etherpad for those sessions (make sure to anonimize data!)
-   We try to have the smallest number of open question possible because they make hard to analyse the data.

#### Daniel's recent workshop

- extreme bimodal distribution of skills
- interest in reading files, string parsing with Python
- survey results not representative of class background
- participants less willing to ask for help

Ideas:

- for a Python workshop, both instructors should go through material before workshop  even if not teaching (esp. if Python not primary language); same for R workshops
- good exercises for each lesson topic, in order to check in with class and get less biased feedback
- recommend subset of lesson topics more suited for novice vs intermediate track
- idea to mark lessons for more beginner and more intermediate

Pre-workshop preparation sessions (draft) : https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h8GB8fm1-ngdeVNnU5abKX_SMxWLLXYSCiWFijqxyxU/edit
