# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 16/11/2015

Times: 4pm GMT and 9pm UTC.

## Attending

### Afternoon

-   Maneesha Sane
-   Raniere Silva
-   Rayna Harris

### Evening

-   Belinda Weaver
-   Bernhard Konrad
-   Christina Koch
-   Kate Hertweck
-   Maneesha Sane
-   Raniere Silva

## Apologies

-   Bill Mills
-   Carol Willing
-   Daniel Chen
-   Karin Lagesen
-   Mariela Perignon
-   Michael Sarahan
-   Phil Rosenfield
-   Sue McClatchy
-   Tiffany Timbers
-   Tracy Teal

## Actions

-   CK and KH will write up a post for the debriefing session on November 10th and include the HPC discussion.
-   RS will talk with KL about the mentoring and mini-lesson proposal.
-   BW will send Aleksandra's email with prerequisites to Raniere.
-   RS: Email Greg, Jonah and Tracy about what are the requirements for full data/software carpentry instructor certification.

## Past Actions

## Post Workshop Debriefing Sessions

### November 10

Morning session had only one instructor that taught for the first time. The workshop was OK but there was a few problems with installation. Only cover half a day with Python and the last session was about HPC.

In the afternoon there was also only one instructor that taught a lesson on NoSQL. Other than that it was a usual workshop.

### GitHub issues for lessons

BK volunteer to create the issues based on the debriefing sessions.

### Next

-   Need volunteer for November 24
    -  Morning (10:00 EDT): Tiffany Timbers Rayna Harris Bernhard Konrad
    -  Evening (19:00 EDT): Kate Hertweck
-   Need volunteer for December 8 (this will be the last one in 2015)
    -  Morning (10:00 EDT): Tiffany Timbers Rayna Harris Bernhard Konrad
    -  Evening (19:00 EDT):Bill Mills
-   Need volunteer for January 12 (this will be the first one in 2016)
    -  Morning (10:00 EDT):
    -  Evening (19:00 EDT):

## Pre Workshop Debriefing Sessions

KH: No much update. What's the best strategy to schedule a pre-briefing? Should we just choose dates/times?  Or ask for new times?

RS: Daniel complained about the day of the week.

KH: We can use other day with the same times.  And email the mentoring list to see if we can cover those times.

MS: We can get a list of upcoming instructors with the same tool that Raniere uses to get lists of past instructors.

## (Virtual) Instructor Retreat

### Feedback surveys

They are available at:

-   https://drive.google.com/open?id=1ALYP2Ym_v_OVgqMN0X5mgq0zW-E-OsE5Jj8xFRuKJtg
-   https://drive.google.com/open?id=1unuY-859XRf6N0aUIqhYzkrcaI3cyLdtT0FpWQhpTbM
-   https://drive.google.com/open?id=1fn_n_OKArImc_S1PPthYwr4SZTJ63QMNho9qCAGt-ek

The raw data will be keep private due privacy issues but the compilation data will be available as soon as possible.

### Blog post

Daniel starts to write:
https://github.com/swcarpentry/site/pull/1173

People are welcome to submit posts on their experience!  

### Comments

CK: The retreat was OK. Kate's session was awesome.

BW: The timezone didn't help very much and the session that I want to watch weren't recorded. The slack channel was great and people in Melbourne used it a lot but not later. Greg session about contribution was great. It was great to be able to interact on the etherpad and also ask questions while it was on.

KH: Stressful. And have your session save for eternity is not very friendly. Knowing that the video will be replace in the future will help.

CK: The video get people worry. Having video resources will be very useful - different form of instruction for something like pull requests, watching a demo vs reading.  Would be great to have more videos created (just for fun, or people recording their teaching), and curate them as a resource!

KH: Keep track of the resources,  will be good for new instructors.

BK: Only catch a few of the sessions. The sessions about contribution was very useful (special Greg's session that also cover how things works in Software Carpentry).  Good for getting updated on what things were happening. Recorded videos great resource for future instructors.

RS: Big challenge: IT and videoconferencing.

MS: Great to have all the instructors put this together + contribute, videos curated will be a big step.

## Instructor Training

Announcement at http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/09/rebooting-instructor-training.html
and newer post at http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/10/call-for-instructor-training.html.

### Selection of groups for the two-day version

9 groups applied so far.

On Wednesday RS will send the link of the spreadsheet for vote on the groups
(everyone has 8 votes)
and if we need discussion, will happen at the same time as these meetings next Monday (11/23).

BW: What about timezones?

RS: We should have 4 instructors in diferente timezones so we will probably have someone in Australia timezone.

CK: I should know at least one of the groups. Maybe I should abstain to vote due conflict of interest.

RS: I also know some groups applying and I think that most of us also. I think that everyone having 8 votes, one for each group seat available and voting only once per group, will minimize any conflict of interest. And we are all smart and reasonable so we can solve any problem with discussion.

### Mentoring New Instructors + Mini-Lessons

CK: KL is waiting input from Tracy about Data Carpentry? She should have it soon and present it for us.

## Extra topics

