# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 05/10/2015

Times: 5pm GMT and 9pm UTC.

## Attending

### Afternoon

-   Bill Mills
-   Jonah Duckles
-   Karin Lagesen
-   Mariela Perignon
-   Raniere Silva
-   Rayna Harris
-   Sue McClatchy

### Evening

-   Christina Koch
-   Kate Hertweck
-   Raniere Silva
-   Tracy Teal

## Apologies

-   Belinda Weaver
-   Carol Willing
-   Daniel Chen
-   Michael Sarahan
-   Phil Rosenfield
-   Sheldon McKay
-   Tiffany Timbers

## Actions


## Past Actions

-   Raniere: ask to Greg about advertise the retreat to waiting list.

    Done.
-   Raniere: talk with Greg about send emails about retreat based on AMY.

    Some permission issues. **And AMY does not store city of instructors.**

    Maybe use for regional mailing list.
-   Raniere: write the procedures about selection of people for instructor training.

    Done at https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/53.

## Post Workshop Debriefing Sessions

-   Need volunteer for September 29
    -   Morning (10AM EST): Kate Hertweck
    -   Evening (7PM EST): Bill Mills, Tiffany Timbers
-   Need volunteer for October 13
    -   Morning: Rayna Harris, Kate Hertweck
    -   Evening: Raniere Silva
-   Need volunteer for October 27
    -   Morning:
    -   Evening:

### Access pre and post assessment

RH: One instructor did analysis for the pre and post assessment. He noticed that the questions aren't the same on pre and post and raise question about that. At the debriefing we don't have feedback on the students side and will be great if we have.

RS: Every instructor have access to the answers of their workshops.

RH: I never have access.

KL: The lead instructor have access.

MP: Can we have the feedback from the stickers.

RH: Will be good to archive the stickers.

Conclusion: great for mentoring committee to have access to assessment information, but wait until new version of survey (on surveymonkey) is available? And need to think about way to get "visual" feedback like post-it-note drawings.

### Data Carpentry Debriefing Sessions

Tracy debriefs each workshop so far.
She looks at results of all surveys, communicates important results to instructors
and share assessments with the hosts as well.

Tracy will think about training on things like 'handling negative feedback' on instructor retreat day  :)

Important question: would you recommend this to a friend? (great for convincing hosts of efficacy as well!)

Tracy suggested about the possibility of other mentoring sessions related to helping handle different types of feedback.

Data Carpentry workshops will be on AMY so instructors of Data Carpentry workshops
can attend the debriefing sessions.

## Pre Workshop Help Sessions

Separate proposal from mentoring/mini-lesson proposal; aimed at people who have spent time away from SWC (or are new) and want to check in pre-workshop.

The proposal Will include some language about Data Carpentry (folks transferring from SWC to DC)
and TT in communications about workshop planning.

## (Virtual) Instructor Retreat Planning

Date: November 14th

Site: https://swcarpentry.github.io/instructor-retreat-2015/

Announcement/Blog post: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/09/instructor-helper-retreat.html

**Tasks needing help**:

-   finding sites

    Is there one in every region with a collection of SWC instructors?

-   finding speakers

    See [Python 2->3 lesson proposal](https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-retreat-2015/issues/28)

-   AVStrategy

    Google hangouts on air (youtube) is our current best bet because
    
    -   likely that people already have a google account and can use accounts,
    -   scales to lots of people watching at once.
    -   allow instructors keep control of their video

## Instructor Training

Announcement: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/09/rebooting-instructor-training.html

8 week online training starts next week, participants already selected and invited.

### Selection of groups for the two-day version

Pull request: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/53

-   Preference to groups that aren't members of one partner of affiliate of us conflict with the non-discrimination part later

    Details at https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/53/files#diff-aeb3a9949d946d12bb1558ae897ab731R14

    JD: This could be bad for partners that just signed.

    KL: This should go to the Steering Committee.

    **RESOLUTION**: Steering Committee will vote on this.

-   Group size of 2-6 people

    Details at https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/53/files#diff-aeb3a9949d946d12bb1558ae897ab731R32

    KL: Will be easy to get another people with you are somewhere that SCF is starting operation.

    RH: There is evidence that big groups are better?

    KL: No, we are going to test it.

    MP: Feedbacks of only one people are a problem.

    **MOTION (PASSED)**: Only have groups.

-   Address to send cover letter

    Details at https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/53/files#diff-aeb3a9949d946d12bb1558ae897ab731R49

    **MOTION (PASSED)**: Use google forms.

### Mentoring New Instructors

**Need pull request**.

### Mini-Lessons

Pull request: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/43

Steering Committee need to vote when people get their instructor badge.

Meeting on Friday (led by Karin) to discuss logistics of mini-lessons and mentoring program.
