# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: Monday, March21

First Round:10:00 EDT (New York time)  (14:00 UTC)

Second Round: 19:00 EDT (New York time) (23:00 UTC)

How to connect: https://hangouts.google.com/call/y5y67tky5nf2tp5kzlk3gfj5eee

THIS ETHERPAD WILL BE ARCHIVED ON https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/ THAT IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE. (Something that I learned from Karin =))

## Attending (First round)
Rayna Harris
Maneesha Sane 
Karin
Kate
Christina Koch
Greg Wilson

## Attending (Second round)
Rayna Harris
Belinda Weaver
Bill Mills
Tiffany Timbers
Kate

## Apologies (deduced from members listed here: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/subcommittees/subcommittees.md#mentorship
Carol Willing
Daniel Chen
Mariela Perignon
Michael Sarahan
Susan McClatchy
Tracy Teal 
Raniere
Jonah
Phil Rosenfield


## Announcements
After a year of excellent serivce, Raniere Silva is stepping down as Chair of the Mentoring committee. Thanks Raniere for all your excellent work!


## Past Actions
none

## Post Workshop Debriefing Sessions 
Morning etherpad: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/swc-debriefing-morning
Afternoon etherpad: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/swc-debriefing-evening

Need two committe members present for each session 

Need volunteer for March 22
Morning (10:00 EDT): Tiffany Timbers
Evening (20:00 EDT, 00:00 UTC): Belinda Weaver
Need volunteer for April 5
Morning (10:00 EDT):                       
Evening (20:00 EDT, 00:00 UTC):): Belinda Weaver

## Pre Workshop Help Sessions 
http://pad.software-carpentry.org/pre-workshop-evening
http://pad.software-carpentry.org/pre-workshop-morning

!! Confirm times Make these same times as debriefing sessions above? See notes below about general discussion sessions
Need volunteer for March 30
Morning (10:00 EST): Kate
Evening (19:00 EST): Kate
Need volunteer for April 13
Morning (10:00 EST): Karin, Kate
Evening (19:00 EST): Kate, Tiffany

## Instructor Training

(note: we could table this in favor of discussing Kate's structural proposition in the 'Extra Topics' - these IT concerns are just a specific subset of the broader structure discussion)
Bill asks: how can Mentorship better serve IT? <-- or perhaps more broadly, what's the right way to arrange all of Mentorship's projects in groups / subgroups?
we jumped on board because a lot of us were and still are really keen on IT
but it caused a lot of confusion;
we ended up voting on a bunch of IT-related things in a big hurry late last year without enough time to consider them
great flow chart crisis of late 2015
more recently, long circular discussions about whether to combine discussion sessions with checkouts - didn't reach a compelling conclusion either way (more to come)
none of this is surprising; it's classic feature creep.
the SC has proposed clearer roles for people on committees and more targeted remits for committees and working groups; given all this, is there any way we can organize the relationship between Mentoring and IT in a more productive way?
Belinda asks whether this chart of Bill's is still on the table? https://gist.github.com/BillMills/8b9d43addfb98d63d50c <-- in principle it still makes sense, except that the 'Instructor Checkouts' currently has two moving parts, one of which is being considered for convolution into debriefs (or checkins). We need to resolve Kate's and Greg's proposals, then I'll draw us a new picture :)

Belinda's proposed post-IT strategy for helping people finish. I call the mentor the 'shepherd' so it is clear who we are talking about – we can think up another name.

GVW notes: this is all takes place after their course, but before they qualify, i.e., in the period when we want to introduce them to mentoring, but they're still beholden to instructor training.

Identify in advance WHO is going to be the shepherd, and if possible, have that shepherd attend the final stages of the instructor training session to meet trainees either in person or virtually (if the training is online).
Make sure all trainees have contact details for their shepherd.
Make sure the shepherd has contact details for all trainees in their flock [working the sheep metaphor hard here ;-)]
The shepherd emails all trainees the next day just to remind them who their shepherd is
The shepherd sets up an etherpad that includes all the info trainees will need to finish – links for sign-up to discussions, links for sign-up for teaching demos - so they don’t have to keep going back through emails
GVW: or put this in a prominent place on the Software Carpentry website? BW: +1 to that
The shepherd emails all trainees to remind them what’s ahead to finish their training – i.e. discussion lesson, teaching demo – and again points them to the etherpad with those details
The shepherd emails trainees a week later to check on their progress and ensure they still know what they need to do, providing that etherpad link yet again
The shepherd uses the etherpad to schedule practice teaching slots and encourages all trainees to sign up [this is a voluntary step but helps people focus and gives them more feedback on their teaching before the final demo – plus it builds a bit of community as they are back again with their cohort]
GVW: I hope the use of Etherpad for scheduling is going to go away - with luck, we'll have a Google Summer of Code student build support for the instructor training/checkout workflow into AMY this summer BW: bring it on!
 The shepherd continues to follow up with gentle reminders, and might schedule a face to face or phone/video call with someone who’s really not doing any of the steps to try to figure out what the issue is
GVW: or not - my feeling is that if someone doesn't respond to all of the moral support in points 1-8, they'll probably never teach for us even if they qualify.
BW: except in some cases, there has been a genuine reason - illness, injury, family crisis - which, when resolved, frees them to finish. If we don't follow up, we'll never know.

fAleksandra Pawlik made the following extra points about who the shepherd could be - it might be host-dependent:

Host-shepherd whose development of pool of instructors is of vital interest. Such host is also an active community member and passionate about SWC/DC. Example - Belinda :-) and Anelda (who is planning a similar approach to Belinda's for the IT in April). In this case instructors may be from various organisations. Implementation of Belinda's programme should work well in such cases.
GVW: +1 to having the shepherd be whoever rounded up the sheep in the first place. (See, I can do metaphors too...)
Host is at a partner site and the IT is exclusively for this site. If the host is engaged in SWC/DC, active and passionate community member, we're good. If the host is someone who is responsible for primarily operations at the partner site, some of the shepherding need to be shifted onto the trainees (assumption is they are self-motivated group of colleagues). Based on the experiences from our online pilot in the autumn - this may be problematic. 
Host is at a partner site but opens the training to a number of people from outside the organisation (that has happened and will happen I think) or the partner is so large (eg. ELIXIR) that naturally the host is not able to or entitled to pre-select the participants. Belinda's shepherding plan may need adjustment here (not sure how).
SWC/DC is the host. I am talking here about the open online IT which we are possibly considering to run from time to time. The trainer(s) are the shepherds.
GVW: I don't think the trainers should be shepherds for open online training - we should get a community volunteer (both to share load and to offer people more ways of helping out).



## Discussion Sessions as Part of Instructor Training

Right now, trainees have to do three things, in order, after their class in order to qualify:

Submit a change to a lesson
Take part in a lesson discussion session
Do a 5-minute online lesson demo

Proposal:

Allow trainees to do #2 and #3 in parallel rather than in sequence (i.e., any order, but both must be done).
Instead of running lesson discussion sessions devoted solely to trainees, have them take part in a post-workshop debriefing session. Can we simply call these "instructor discussion sessions"? See my subsection below outlining model

Reasoning:

Eliminates extra load.
Introduces trainees to more members of the community.
Introduces them to the post-workshop debriefing process we want them to take part in after their workshops.

Notes:

Karin Lagesen was concerned that trainees would be intimidated and not ask questions; Kate Hertweck does not believe this will be a problem. If it is, we re-assess.
Assumes regularly-scheduled discussion slots accessible to all timezones, but we should do that anyway (?)
Two a week at different times?
One each week, alternating times?
I recommend we retain current scheduling: alternate weeks between Tuesday and Wednesday, 10:00 EST/15:00 UTC and 20:00 EST/01:00 UTC). This provides two time slots each week, and two different days of the week. Does everyone else (specifically Belinda) think this will provide adequate opportunities for folks to attend?
Will necessitate discussion session leaders taking note of who was present and reporting back to their trainer (we need to know who's completed this step, and we need to know that they actually took part, rather than signing in and zoning out).
Karin is here also wondering whether discussion leaders will feel like they are prepared and have enough support to actually say that people should do things over again. This might be better once discussion leads get more experience with evaluating people, but I have been hesitant to say no to people. Also: I am wondering about mixing people who will be evaluated on their pariticipation, and those who wont.  <-- +1 & leaders will have to be prepared to deliver & mash up both 'debriefing' and 'discussion' scripts; awkward (Bill)
BIll: I'm generally uncomfortable with this proposal because I think the value of the discussion sessions are as confidence builders for new instructors; that is a very different conversation, from tone to content, than extracting information about how a workshop went (I dread the session under this model where we debrief a workshop that didn't go well, the day before the new instructor present is set to teach their first - total confidence undermine there). I also think that (per my comment on Karin's comment) this will be procedurally more complicated than it at first seems. Overall, this will work a lot better if we adopt Kate's general discussion session idea (but first must resolve the participation issues there) - we could then also address Karin's concerns about saying no by weakening the assessment here (maybe just 'show up and say anything at all'), with the understanding that to pass the 5 minute teaching practical, you *must* have read and understood the lesson - checking that in a discussion session seems redundant. Also, there's the 800 pound gorilla in the flowchart: if instructors are supposed to go to a discussion session before they teach a workshop, then why do we have to make going to a discussion session a requirement of Instructor Training? They're all going to go to one before they teach anyway...
TLDR:
Adopt Kate's proposal for General Discussion Sessions (becuause its great)
Make GDS attendance mandatory strongly expected (because people might not see why they should come otherwise)
Drop discussion sessions from IT (since people will be attending a GDS before they teach anyway, and assessment of discussion sessions is both problematic (Karin) and unnecessary (Bill) )


## A model for general discussion sessions
Here's a short description of my model as described above, which may help clarify how the mentoring subcommittee will be involved. 

We will host two general instructor discussion sessions each week (instead of what we now call instructor debriefing and pre-workshop help sessions). 

The main audiences: 
    1) instructors who have just taught a workshop and are being debriefed,
    2) folks who are getting ready to teach a workshop and want to hear about other's experiences in preparation, and 
    3) newly trained instructors who are fulfilling requirement 2 to qualify as a certified instructor. 

Each audience group will receive email invites (similar to what we're doing now, biweekly).

Advantages of this model:
    1) new instructors and folks preparing for workshops want to hear from people who have taught (which are folks being debriefed!)
    2) we'll have some continuity of communication both before and after instructors teach
    3) community building!
    4) most folks want to talk about general teaching strategies anyway, and a broader group of participants can contribute ideas more clearly. Given that the conversations at sessions with each individual audience are so similar anyway, it makes sense to combine them.

Prior to sessions:
    1) find two hosts per session (mentoring committee, lesson developers?)
    2) send email to new instructors (for their badging)
    3) send email to instructors who will be teaching soon
    4) send email to folks who have recently taught (and their helpers!)
    5) identify themes, perhaps not necessary

Responsibilities of discussion hosts (I recommend 2 hosts per session if possible):
    1) make sure everyone can join discussion session
    2) check that everyone is signed in, and why they're attending (especially important for new instructor checkouts)
    3) have each instructor list answers to debriefing questions (or other questions, where applicable)
    4) balance the discussion to allow for all attendees to participate
    5) following discussion, report back to relevant folks (attendance for new instructor checkout, write a blog post, etc)

Bill: I like this and *want* to +1 it, because they'd be awesome if people actually show up, and it resolves a lot of the problems with Greg's proposal above. But, I'm concerned about what was brought up in the email thread: when things get too vague, the value proposition is lost and people don't come. I tried doing general conversational hangouts for instructors a couple of years ago; attendance was spectacularly bad (like 0 or 1, usually 0). How are we going to sell this to instructors? I would be comfortable with 'by fiat', ie making it mandatory; but that'll have to be communicated to instructors during IT (and communication is always complicated - its hard to tell a volunteer they *must* do something).
TLDR +1 if attendance mandatory or strongly reinforced (strongly reinforced == expectation set in IT, regular reminders)


## Karin's split on pre and post checkout 
I believe that there is a conseptual split in our instructor pool between those that have done their checkout and those who have not, i.e. those who are certified to teach  and those who are still in training. I belive we should split what we offer on that divide. I strongly belive we should have separate sessions for non-certified people before their checkout session, which should ideally help them prepare for their checkout session. Now, these could be joined by instructors who are certified, but I don't think this should be the _post_-workshop debriefings (See Bills concerns above about scaring them shitless before we even have them checked out). If we were to non-checked out people and instructors, I think it would work best if non-certified people were invited to the pre-first-workshop sessions that Kate has been running. I also think these sessions should be manned by people who have received training in running these (aka a session with Kate and Greg helping session leads to figure out how to tell somebody to go home and do their homework if they haven't - this also allows mentors to opt out of this part of the business if they aren't comfortable with doing that). Additionally, I suggest keeping the post-workshop debriefings as they have bene, and that we consider running lesson specific sessions 3-6 times a year so that the entire instructor pool can have an opportunity to come together and discuss how to teach specific lessons.      

Summary: 
1. Have specific sessions for non-certified people, possibly together with other instructors, in the form of a pre-workshop session or topic specific sessions
2. Have these sessions manned by people who have volunteered and received training in how to tell wether non-certified people can go through to checkout
3. Keep post-workshop debrievings as they were
4. Set up lesson specific sessions for the instructor pool 3-6 times a year ( if we do not merge with pre-workshop)

Note: to make this work, we need specific times for each type every week, marked in the calendar, so that they are predictable for both mentors and mentees.


Rayna's interpretation of the above discussions:
Varaiations of the "To merge or not to merge" options:
Variation 1: Continue as is. Offer:        
    1. topic specific help sessions         
    2. pre-workshop help sessions         
    3. post-workshop debriefing sessions        
Variation 2: Merge/drop lesson specific help sessions with pre-workshop help sessions. Offer:        
    1. pre-workshop help sessions         
    2. post-workshop debriefing sessions        
Variation 3: Merge pre-and post debriefings, keep topic-specific lessons for instructors training     
   1. topic-specific help sessions for instructors in training   
    2. general instructor discussion sessions for badged instructors        
Variation 4: Merge all. Offer:        
    1. general instructor discussion session. 




## Extra topics

- select new mentoring committe chair
- identify nominees or candidates for the chairperson
- set day, time, and media (online or live) for voting on the new chairperson
- Set dates and times for regularily scheduled meetings 
rounding up new Mentorship members to keep bandwidth high while most of us sit on Steering (welcome Phil!)
- Edthena: could be a useful channel for Mentorship and skill building, but would like to see an adoption plan before we sign any checks.
- Even before an adoption plan, we need someone to take over and drive it so that we get more experience and can make a better judgment about its utility
- Volunteer?
- Possible roles for mentoring subcommittee members:
- hosts for instructor discussion sessions
- shepherds to help newly trained instructors
- lesson developer liasons (refining instructor guides for individual lessons, making sure they are complete, adding extra resources)
- Bill: +1 to these, but more broadly, I suggest we: 
- identify a clear set of deliverables from Mentorship  ("IT Shepards", "General Discussion Sessions", "Retreat / Community Event Planning" seems like a version 0 list, for example)
- ask for volunteers to take charge of each project 
- *strictly require* new projects have at least two volunteers to focus on them before we expand our remit; for example, if we're going to get involved with lesson development, there needs to be someone (preferably 2 people) prepared to focus on that project.
- structure our meetings around report-backs from each project team.


## Agenda

### 1. Welcome & Overview 3 min

### 2. Committee roles: Can post-pone until later. https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1in5KnkD8H0XQ-IwZM4fe2rYNPEmvr2miT13ElKfmkD4/edit#gid=0
Nomiations for Chair, SFC Liason 5 min
Want to get a sense of interest / people power, so that we know our current limitations/gaps/possibilities  

### 3. Reporting Back from Existing Projects 30 min (8 min each) e.g.  attendence, usefulness, pros, cons, filling slots for upcoming meetings, roles for next meetings

####  Topic-specific discussion sessions: (note: these sessions are aimed for new instructors, as part of their checkout process)
Bill - running Python lessons - going very well. Confidence building exercise. Not convinced they are necessary. Are the lessons an over-complication? New instructors should come once to a session before they teach.
Kate: Greg said better to get people into a community. Greg says people should attend at least one.
Tiffany - attend one teaching + one debriefing so that the expectation is set.
Kate: variable attendance, didn't run for a full hour, sometimes one person stayed after with particular questions/concerns
Karin: lack of direction for discussion section leader (and attendees).  Students should have to sit down and think hard about it and find the problems.
Rayna: there was a lot of community involvement by various instructors - is that a good thing?  Students find it useful in different ways, also good to involve more from the community
Greg: is there value in the the discussion-specific sections; would people get as much value just in meeting together?  [Maneesha: could lab meetings address this?] 
- side note: git discussion sections for previous instructor training were very well received, so possibility of topic specific sessions could be very productive
Belinda: let's get the helpers involved in these sessions too - maybe the instructors could forward those on

#### Pre-workshop Discussion sessions: 
no attendees for evening sessions last two times offerred, 2-5 attendees at morning sessions (both new and experienced instructors)
calls have been 30-40 minutes, discussion is similar to post-workshop and topic-specific discussion
would be nice to have a co-host for each call, but not crucial given the number of people attending
-  Post-workshop Debreifing sessions:
decent turnout, covers breadth of material
would be good to have more hosts, especially if more people sign up
What could be merged. 10 min. 

### 4. Discuss instructor training shepherds (develop plan of action or a proposal?) 5 min
Pool of people who "mentor" but are not part of mentoring committee.  Short-term committment for a specific purpose. (ex: people who have been leading topic-specific discussion sections) - table for now? 
-TT is this too much work for the community? Should be faily easy to ask them to do something specific. Ask them to lead 2 sessions or shephard 1 person. Define roles then ask them to do something. Hey, your great a x, will you help with y?

### 5. discuss lesson development for instructors (aggregating and clarifying resources) 5 min
Need for consistent lesson instructor guides - may need a "task force" to get this started (or have leader to connect with lesson developers)
one-day sprint to develop lesson guides based on info from debriefing, etc
complete answers to challenge exercises
extra question banks for challenge exercises
instructor cheatsheets (examples linked)
-- TT hesitation regarding sending information back to lesson development. Rather than have the menotring committee relay the inforamtion to the lesson devs, let's have that instructor send pull requests and such.  Yes, but we *should* coordinate in terms of how guides are structured + where they go, as maintainers will ultimately have to review.  
--BM have a one day sprint for revamping lessons and such as part fo the retreat. TT+1 BW +1

### 6. Nomination for Edthena project leader 3 min
Volunteers?  :DDD
--TT maybe we can find someone to lead this specificially. +1BM

## Action items:
    - Rayna to send follow up email summarizing meeting? - google form. have discussion so they 
    - Christina Koch is elected the new chair!!
    - figure out who will be our liaison on the SC. Rayna will be the Board liason.
    - thinking about if/how/why to merge sessions, process for doing that - maybe something the chair will make a final decision on?
    - Greg to go back to instructor trainers, discuss purpose of checkout discussions and confirm what their purpose is in the great scheme of instructor training
    - ask Maneesha if we can get helper names to invite them to the discussions. And/or ask specifically to invite the helpers. 

## Preference for merging sessions

all the below assume regular dates/times locked into the calendar
also assumes that those that involve pre-checkout will have mentor leads who have received good instructions&guidance on it 

alt 1: merge all GVW:+1 KH +1 MS +1BM +1 TT+1 +1BW   
alt 2: keep pre-checkout discussion sessions, pre and post-workshop debriefing sessions as they are   
alt 3: merge pre-checkout people with pre-workshop, keep post-workshop as they are   
alt 4: merge pre-checkout people with post-workshop, keep pre-workshop as they are   
alt 5: merge pre-checkout people with pre-workshop, keep post-workshop as they are, create separate topic discussion sessions   
alt 6: keep pre-checkout discussion sessions, but include other instructors in the topic specific sessions, pre and post-workshop debriefing sessions as they are   
alt 7: topic specific sessions for all (pre-checkout mandatory), pre and post merged KL+1   
