# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: August 07, 2015

Time: 5pm GMT

## Attending

-   Kate Hertweck
-   Raniere Silva
-   Tiffany Timbers

## Apologies

-   Carol Willing
-   Daniel Chen
-   Karin Langesen
-   Sheldon McKay

## Actions

-   Raniere: present the micro lesson proposal at the next steering committee meeting.
-   Raniere: raise the problems of groups for instructor training.
-   Raniere: send a doodle for Noam Ross, Jenny Bryan, Kara Woo to find a good date to discuss the Instructor Retreat Planning.
-   Tiffany: will write a draft of the summary and send for the mentoring list.
-   Tiffany: will create and send the Doodle via instructor mailing list.
-   Raniere: contact Greg to invite partners and affiliate to be part of Instructor Retreat Planning.

## Past Actions

-   RS: I will take some time to address Greg's comments about workshop checklist.

    Still have to work on that.

## Debriefing Sessions

-   August 04
    -   10am EST: Tiffany, Karin
    -   7pm EST: Kate
-   Need volunteer for August 18
    -   10am EST: Tiffany, Kate
    -   7pm EST: Sheldon, Raniere
-   Need volunteer for September 1

## Instructor Retreat Planning

This idea was recently kickstarted by a Twitter thread, https://twitter.com/noamross/status/624995600237506560, initiated by Noam Ross.

Possible organizers:

-   Greg Wilson,
-   Jenny Bryan,
-   Kara Woo,
-   Karin Lagesen,
-   Noam Ross,
-   Raniere Silva and
-   Tiffany Timbers.

Ideas so far:

-   One day retreat
-   To keep things cost effective, we are thinking of local meet-ups which connect remotely.
-   Teach to each other locally, but also use live streaming to interact remotely. This is particularly important for people who do not have other instructors nearby, and thus cannot meet anyone locally. For such cases, we will have them participate via a series of half a hour tutorial using Google Hangouts on Air. We will start with people in Europe and end with people in Australia.

    Maybe a remote only group.

-   Have a social/dinner/drinks at the end of each day in each location
-   Morning: R for Python users and Python for R users
    -   Promote bilingualism among instructors.
    -   Most sites will have plenty of instructors on both these topics.  It may be a good opportunity for newer instructors to practice.  Encourage many instructors to teach a short module.
    -   Teach intermediate/advanced modules
    -   Split each regional site into two rooms?

        Yes, this will will avoid noise.

-   Afternoon: kicking the tires on new lessons
    -   Have Python users reviewing R lessons and R users reviewing Python lessons. 
    -   Improve lesson material quality, encourage creation and teaching lessons in recent tools.
    -   Expose more instructors to the material in new lessons (make, D3, new tools within R/Python, etc.), so they can learn it themselves and get more familiar with the material to teach
    -   Put the material before instructors for feedback, expecting a bunch of pull requests on the lessons afterwards.
    -   Since fewer instructors will know this material, it's a better candidate for a few instructors teach each remotely.  Depending on how many/how long these lessons are, split at local sites depending on which lesson people want to participate in.
    -   Suggestion from Karin: go through the lesson making tools (writing in markdown, making pull requests). I think that many people are uncomfortable with introducing changes because they don't know how to do it.

        Include list of things that instructors have problems.
    -   Select part of the lessons that can be drop or not taught during the workshops.

Questions:

1.  Date?

    I think we need to poll instructors to figure this out.
    Weekend (Saturdays?) Beginning of October or November?
    Doodle poll for Saturdays and in October and November (no Halloween)

2.  Do we recruit lead organizers in each location?
    Yes, but what locations?
    Do we know where instructors are?
    Karin suggests that we recruit local organizers to head up work at each location.
    Otherwise it will be difficult to gather people, I think.

    Raniere agrees with Karin's suggestion.

    Kate suggest to include in the doodle the question for be a organizer.

    Raniere suggested to contact Greg to invite partners and affllliete if they want to do that.

3.  Budget (do we need one, or can this all be done for free?)?

    RS: Sites will need budget for coffee and snack but probably local organizers could get the budget locally. Greg probably can send stickers to sites.

## Checklist

More at http://lists.software-carpentry.org/pipermail/mentoring_lists.software-carpentry.org/2015-July/000214.html

**No updates.**

## Micro Lesson

Idea: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/subcommittees/mentoring/microLessonProposal.md (we have green light from Steering Committee)

Road map: https://github.com/ttimbers/board/blob/master/subcommittees/mentoring/Micro-Lesson_Implementation.md

TT: Updated Road map (link on line above) to include mentoring committee's feedback. What is the next step needed?

RS: Steering Committee is reviewing the instructor training program. I'm suggest to include something very similar for the online and we probably can focus here at the inperson version.

TT: The same micro-lesson program could happen after either the online or in-person instructor training. The micro-lesson program as we have outlined it does not require the Trainees or Mentors to be in the same place. It can be done in person or remotely.

## LMW: Lesson Material Workthrough

Idea: https://docs.google.com/document/d/11adxhkJaPjPiW42L3HLs9RZA9HwPGEQ2vB_ZEXorIns/edit?usp=sharing

In the agenda for next steering committee meeting. The steering committee will back on that soon.
