![The Carpentries Logo](https://software-carpentry.org/img/TheCarpentries.png)
# :memo: Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting :file_folder:

__Date:__ 2018-07-30

__Time:__ 13:00 & 22:00 UTC

## :raised_hand: Attending
* Toby Hodges (1st)
* Kari Jordan (1st)
* Sarah Stevens (1st)
* Belinda Weaver (2nd)
* Tobin Magle (2nd)

***

## 1. Introductions & Check in questions:

To start off the meeting: Please answer one of the 4 following questions, with the 5th as optional:

1. What's new?
2. What's exciting?
3. What's bothering you?
4. What have you thought about from last meeting?
5. Describe your mood in one sentence (optional follow-up).


## 2. Updates from liaisons for other subcommittees:

- Updates from Mentoring committee:
    - We are looking for a new co-chair of mentoring! Apply at this link: https://goo.gl/forms/QWSEBD2yGu3Qcy8m1
- Trainers Committee (Erin):
    - New Trainers will be added to the Trainers group from September - December 2018 and will begin teaching in early January 2019.
- Executive Council (Raniere):
    - _no update_
- Mentoring Groups (Kari):
    - http://pad.software-carpentry.org/carpentries-mentors
    - Mentoring Groups Virtual Showcase: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/mentoring-groups
    - The community is welcome. Please spread the word.
    - Kari is working on a templated workflow to run mentoring groups. Check it out here and make comments if you're interested: https://app.asana.com/0/753508471544953/753508471544953
    - Kari: Groups are encouraged to present even if they don't have a defined project/outcome to talk about. Even if groups will continue meeting, I think it's good to have a defined start/end, which the showcase helps with.
    - changes to onboarding document.
    - Toby: three times a year is good for me. Looking forward to signing up again
    - Sarah: what is the showcase?
    - Kari: Each group presents a slide and talks about what they've discussed and achieved in the programme
    - Sarah: is this to encourage recruitment?
    - Kari: yes and also presenting their contributions to the community
    - Toby: anything more that this committee can do to support the groups?
    - Kari: you've been fantastic. From now on mentors and mentees will select time blocks when they are available and I will match them up based on that.

## 3. Report: Discussion Host Onboarding

- Toby and Kari ran a couple of onboarding sessions for people interested in hosting discussion sessions.
    - Since, a number of new hosts have started leading sessions. Experienced hosts are encouraged to co-host for new hosts if you have the chance!
    - Recruiting August discussion leaders! http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion

###### 1st meeting

- Sarah: empowered people to volunteer. I think a lot of people want to volunteer but worry that they won't be capable. Onboarding session helped with this.
- Kari: @Sarah what was it that made you actually sign up?
- Sarah: I had been thinking about it for a while. Had co-hosted before. After onboarding, was planning on doing it eventually but email call for hosts at last minute gave me the final push to go ahead and do it.
- I will mail the discussion-hosts list to encourage those who were at the onboarding to sign up to co-host soon.
- Toby: might be worth doing another one in ~6 months. _Darya: Could we please do one at an Aus-friendly time sooner, next month or so? We had dozens of instructors who couldn't attend because we were running ResBaz Sydney - and there was definitely some discussion that people wanted to become hosts, so we needed an onboarding session. Thanks!_

###### 2nd meeting

- Belinda: I agree we should keep at this. Look at recruiting very short blog pieces "Thoughts of an occasional meeting host" to reassure people they won't get sucked in. Even hosting two or three a year would help.
  - Suggest calendar invitation go to hosts who sign up so it appears in their personal calendar to help with no-shows. Maybe for participants as well - is there something better for sign up than an etherpad ? A Google form? Lots of overhead? Benefit of etherpad not static, easy to change/move.
- Tobin: Question who sends the meeting invites? Chair? Others?


## 4. Communication Channels for Mentoring

- See Kari's Issue on the Mentoring GitHub repository here: https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/issues/55
- Kari: A lot of communication channels - multiple mailing lists, Slack channel. Some mailing lists don't seem to have a lot of talk on them. Only time I use the mentees list is to send out the feedback surveys. Use the mentors list more often.
    - Toby: makes me think again about whether we should consider renaming this subcommittee.
    - Kari: instructor development
    - Sarah: why are we a subcommittee instead of a committee?
    - Kari: originally, we were under the steering committee, thus a subcommittee. This is no longer the case, so we don't need to be a subcommittee anymore. I have wanted to change it to "committee" for a long time.
    - Toby: we can do this! I will try to change how I refer to this in all future communications.
    - For new names for committee: please add ideas to the list at the bottom of this etherpad. I will create an issue on GitHub to discuss the renaming further and add this list to start off the discussion.
    - Toby: I'll ask Martin to use the discussion-hosts list for calls for hosts. I also need to update the handbook and make sure that everyone who wants to be on that list is subscribed.
    - Belinda: +1 to renaming - will check the GitHub issue
- Fixing schedule (e.g. last Monday of month) for these meetings
  - Toby: seems like a good idea, but what do we do if chair(s) can't attend?
  - Kari: staff support is there for this.
  - Issue for discussion of renaming this committee: https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring/issues/61

## 5. Themed discussions and how are the discussions going?

- There was support for running more themed discussion sessions.
- Recruiting August discussion leaders! http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
    - Please remember to put your email on the etherpad when you sign up to help host instructor discussions
    - If you see a new person who signed up to host/co-host with you, please reach out to them!
- How should we organise/announce more themed discussion sessions?

###### 1st meeting

- Toby: felt like the trial run went quite well. how should we go about organising? schedule? finding hosts/topics?
- Sarah: how often would these happen?
- Toby: once or twice a month. could influence our checkout procedure
- Sarah: a DC Genomics session could be great.
- Toby: a lot of bioinformaticians in the community. This is a good idea for a session.
- Toby: how do we make this self-perpetuating?
- Kari: pick 12 topics, call for hosts for a particular period e.g. Jan-Mar. Different timezones, call for hosts for these particular topics. This gives them time to prepare, come to a committee meeting to ask questions.
- Sarah: having people sign up in advance is a great idea. Gives them time to develop the topic themselves.
- Kari: want to give people the opportunity to build it but don't want to make it a lot of work for them.
- Sarah: they might want to community source info for the topic
- Toby: I will try to get this moving before the August meeting

###### 2nd meeting

- Belinda: good outcome of running a workshop on no money was getting  blog post with info that can be reused
- Tobin: themed discussions for people with no workshops in prospect
- Belinda: building a local community - what are the tools and strategies? might be one good themed discussion topic
- Tobin:  What's it like to travel for a workshop?
- Belinda: When good workshops go bad - handling issues like CoC violations, wifi or etherpads going down, old laptops, slow internet, no helpers, natural disasters, having people who won't shut up and keep interrupting _Darya: another issue: not enough room in the room at the venue! Apparently if we can't walk around students without disturbing them learning outcomes go WAY down!_
- Tobin: How can i get more involved in the Carpentries? Run down of committees and task forces? Maybe similar to the My Pathways in the Carpentries campaign ...


## 6. How to use the information in the discussion host feedback

- Update on Host Questionnaire: form for hosts to fill out after a discussion session
    - Questionnaire here: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/14lhvSviLMikgidMyBke-cheBiD73_FoorDLso3KfViY/edit
    - It automatically sends an email to checkout@carpentries.org with the list of participants from question 7.
- Update on Community Discussion Questionnaire

###### 2nd meeting

- Belinda: Think it's a bit long. But maybe better than having to summnarise in an email. Like the auto email to checkout@



## 7. Brainstorming other subcommittee projects (Some ideas)

- Develop training for mentors (similar to Maintainers and Trainers training)
- Coaching instructors who had “not so good” feedback on their post-workshop surveys
- Running mentoring group sessions in lieu of discussion sessions

###### 2nd meeting

- Belinda: Suggest developing wording for mentors similar to that for instructors, maintainers and trainers https://github.com/carpentries/commons - provides some incentives for people to take on the role - I can start to craft something if people think this is a good idea
- +1 to the idea of training for mentors
- +1 to coaching instructors who had not so good feedback but this would need to be very carefully handled _Darya: there are also issues with some workshops will run better than others due to issues outside of the instructor's control: we just had one at ResBaz where feedback for instructors was meh, which was actually a combination of small room [so we couldn't unintrusively assess progress], uninivolved helpers [who got great reviews, but actually provided no feedback as to how students were going, and did much ], and a few other technical issues - so definitely need to be careful, as it can be very workshop-dependent and cohort-dependent_
    - Re "Running mentoring group sessions in lieu of discussion sessions" - how would they be different?
    - Tobin: Mentoring has been optional till now - for people who feel they need it

## 8. Becoming more engaged with mentoring subcommittee

###### 2nd meeting

- Belinda: I can do this time so hope to be more involved going forward
- Tobin: would like to be more involved, this time works


## 9. Mentoring wish list

###### 2nd meeting

- Belinda: Happy with the repo of resources Kari has created and that is there to be found


### Ideas for new names for this committee:
    - Instructor Development
    - Professional Development
