# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 4 Sept 2015

Time: 5pm GMT

## Attending

-   Raniere Silva
- 	Christina Koch
-	Sue McClatchy
-	Rayna Harris
-	Kate Hertweck
-	Sheldon McKay
-	Karin Lagesen
- 	Michael Sarahan

## Apologies

-   Bill Mills
-	Tiffany Timbers
-	Phil Rosenfield
-	Mariela Perignon
-	Daniel Chen
-	Belinda Weaver

## Debriefing sessions

-   Sept 1 (already occurred, earlier this week)
    -   Morning 10 AM EST: Kate Hertweck, Rayna Harris, Michael Sarahan
    -   Evening 7 PM EST: Raniere Silva, Christina Koch
-   Volunteers for Sept 15
    -   Morning: Kate Hertweck, Sheldon McKay
    -   Evening: Tiffany Timbers
-	Volunteers for Sept 29
    -   Morning: Kate Hertweck Rayna Harris
    -   Evening: Bill Mills, Tiffany Timbers
-   Discussion about improving efficacy of debriefing sessions:
	-	RH: Lessons are personally helpful.
	-	KL: Suggestion to differentiate debriefing sessions between first time instructors and lead instructors.
	-	RH: Have one sessions before workshop, and another afterwards?
	-	CK: New session in addition to current two-week schedule? Date and time?
	-	Motion: vote on logistics at next meeting.

## Mentoring subcommittee organizing and planning
-	Secretary
	-	RS: We need to appoint people responsible for taking notes during meetings, also in reformatting minutes to submit to the [board repo](https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/master/subcommittees/mentoring).
	-	KL and CK volunteered to assist as secretary and will coordinate responsibilities.
-	Meeting times
	-	Coordinating meeting times for Fall-Winter with [this form](http://whenisgood.net/scf-mentoring), replies available [here](http://whenisgood.net/scf-mentoring/results/8wyrjyz)
	-	We will have two meetings every two weeks to accomodate everyone
	-	Action: RS will select times that will work for most people.

## (Virtual) Instructor Retreat Planning
-	One day "retreat" for instructors to share experiences and techniques, a written description of the plan can be found [here](https://etherpad.mozilla.org/swc-instructor-retreat-planning).
-	We'll check with Tiffany and Bill at our next meeting to finalize the date and start specific planning.

## Establishing groups post-workshop
-	We discussed establishment of learning groups following workshops to help students keep learning. This may also include groups of instructors/helpers following on-site instructor training who may want to keep in touch.
-	These groups may be able to leverage existing community building resources like [Mozilla Study Groups](https://www.mozillascience.org/introducing-mozilla-science-study-groups) or [Hacker Within](https://github.com/thehackerwithin).
-	We may be able to invite workshop organizers to spearhead these events, and entice folks to attend with coffee/pizza.

## Welcome to new members
-	New members invited to introduce themselves and explain personal goals for subcommittee
	- 	SM: Looking to connect with other instructors, share teaching experience and learn to interact with beginners.
	-	CK: Currently postdoc, interested in helping new instructors get going.
	-	MS:	Invested in taking more active role in the organization.
	-	RH:	Looking for network of mentors/instructors who teach computational approaches to biological problems, hoping to empower instructors at University of Texas at Austin and share knowledge about community events.
