# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 30/11/2015

Times: 5pm GMT and 9pm UTC.

## Attending

### Afternoon

-   Kate Hertweck
-   Maneesha Sane
-   Raniere Silva
-   Sue McClatchy
-   Tiffany Timbers

### Evening

-   Bill Mills
-   Jonah Duckles
-   Raniere Silva

## Apologies

-   Belinda Weaver
-   Carol Willing
-   Christina Koch
-   Daniel Chen
-   Karin Lagesen
-   Mariela Perignon
-   Michael Sarahan
-   Phil Rosenfield
-   Rayna Harris
-   Tracy Teal

## Actions

-   All: Review https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/50.
-   Raniere: send the list of future instructors to Kate.
-   All: Fill http://whenisgood.net/kanff2p.
-   Raniere: Wrote a blog post about the help sessions.
-   Raniere and Karin: Talk with Jonah about calendar.
-   Raniere: create calendar. (Replace action on line 84).
-   Raniere: create issues for tasks on https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/.

## Past Actions

## Post Workshop Debriefing Sessions

1. Need volunteer for November 24
    1. Morning (10:00 EDT): Tiffany Timbers Rayna Harris Bernhard Konrad
    2. Evening (19:00 EDT): Kate Hertweck Belinda Raniere Silva
2. Need volunteer for December 8 (this will be the last one in 2015)
    1. Morning (10:00 EDT): Tiffany TimbersBernhard Konrad Sue McClatchy
    2. Evening (19:00 EDT):Bill Mills Raniere Silva
3. Need volunteer for January 12 (this will be the first one in 2016)
    1. Morning (10:00 EDT): Tiffany Timbers Rayna Harris
    2. Evening (19:00 EDT):

The evening debriefing session on November 24th had a lot of good discussion.

PR for blog post (Nov 10): https://github.com/swcarpentry/site/pull/1188

Two posts planned for most recent debriefing (24 Nov)

TT: First debriefing for Berhnard and we talk about the how we was running the debriefing. Berhnard didn't know what to do after the debriefing. We discuss the next steps and said that the best way was to let the community create the pull requests. Do we need to create the issues/pull requests?

RS: This is what I'm trying to make clear at https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/50.

TT: We are already doing a huge amount of work. We can create the pull request/issue but will be more work and not serve the community because the community will not get confortable doing that in the future.

KL: We could regulate this based on how many workshops someone taught. Because instructors are very busy after the workshop. Will be intimidate requiring the creation of issues/pull request.

KK: Some of the comments are already in some issue or pull request. We need to point people to existing pull request. Is easy to us say "Someone raise this before and is good that if you could add comments at this pull request."

MS: Things will depend of the instructor experience. But everyone could create the issue. The pull request is more challenge.

KL: I'm thinking about the pre workshop thing. Maybe we could have a currently list of know issues for the pre workshop helping session.

RS: One use tag for generate that list?

TT: There is a instructor guide at each lesson. We could only point people to this.

RS: I agree with TT.

KL: The guide is more static than what we want for this.

TT: We aren't asking new instructors to contribute to this.

KL: I wondering how many people read the guide. We could only have a links to open issues because people aren't aware of the issues.

TT: We can add a link to the guide. I'm worry about duplicate work.

KL: We can have one link that filter issues on GitHub.

KK: I will add this to my list of resources at the document of the pre workshop helping session.

## Post Workshop Debriefing Sessions - Procedure

Please review https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/50 for the mentoring meeting on December. We will vote on it.

## Pre Workshop Help Sessions

Procedure: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h8GB8fm1-ngdeVNnU5abKX_SMxWLLXYSCiWFijqxyxU/edit

First round: December 9th, 2015.

KK: I sent one email with the proposal. We are planning to have the first one in December 9th (Wednesday) at a time closer to the debriefing and lab to accommodate different timezones. There is a long list of the questions and resources (this could be a separate document). I saw the comment about running it only once a month but I'm want to make this flexible.

KL: Let make clear that people can attend multiple times before the workshop.

RS: So this will be actually a help session/office hours.

KK: Yes.

RS: MS, could you help getting a list of the workshops at the begin of 2016?

MS: Yes.

KL: There is a list of upcoming workshop. Could we add the debriefing to that calendar.

TT: +1 to that idea.

MS: Maybe this could be confusing.

KL: Maybe another calendar.

RS: I going to talk with Jonah about adding this.

## Instructor Training

### Selection of groups for the two-day version

Done last week.

Some groups that weren't accepted are very unhappy. Suggestions to avoid this in the future:

1. Let groups know how many seats will be available for each timezone. And explicit group maximums. Tell people how many groups per instructor that we offer and how many people per group. Could go for a rubric style scoring for groups.
2. Use first-come, first-served instead of selection.
    1. Does this list roll over to the next scheduled training, or do groups need to resubmit?
    2. Negative to this, will bias locations that already know about us. +1 This would not bring global representation to SWC instructor pool. <-- applicants still have to hear about SWC to apply in any case.
    3. +1 Best strategy for transparency; but the scoring rubric suggestion below is also excellent.

KL: What where the complains?

RS: The process wasn't open nought. And they put much effort and didn't get selected.

KL: I think the problem was that we weren't expecting that number of applications. I expected at maximum 24.

TT: Was hard to include big groups because was difficult to accommodate does groups.

SM: SCF must meet its obligations to sponsors, and to fill seats with those who have donated $ or labor.

RS: SCF already met the obligations to sponsors.

SM: Publish selection criteria. For example: 1. fill seats for SCF sponsors: 2. choose groups from geographic al areas that are under-represented among SWC instructors 3. et cetera 

RS: We publish our criteria but we didn't had a form to gave grades based on their application. Will help if we have a table with grades? E.g. 5 points if groups has gender balance.

TT: +1 to a rubric for how we assess them. This also makes it easier for the selection committee. Was difficult to be objective on the selection.

SC: Scoring criteria would also help us to make decisions. I floundered a bit, but did the best I could to select groups from regions with few or no instructors.

MS: Looking at our existing instructor pull was difficult to do a good analyse of groups. This is difficult when try to match the instructors.

KL: Did you register this somehow?

MS: No. Just the felling.

JD: I want to focus on increase the bandwidth.

BM: I think that the selection create a lot of problem because people get a slap on their face and think that SCF is a club.

JD: I want to have a date to offer for all the groups. But Greg isn't available at all times. But if we are going to do this again we need to sort out the selection.

BM: I think that the FC-FS would work OK.

### Praticum

Pull request on https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/65 .

KL: SCF steering committee will vote on it this week. There is some discussions about incentives.

MS: I have mixed feelings about this. From the people that subscribe I look to balance experience of the instructors, avoid overwhelming someone/offer experience to more instructors.

KL: Give priority when equally qualify. I don't think will be very difficult to get the mentors.

MS: I'm OK with this when all else is equal

MS: How many mentors?

KL: One mentor for each group of 8 new instructors. And this is a one month committee.

JD: Is a little more complicate than it need to be right now because we need to test it before scale it. Need to be careful about incentives doesn't be desincentives.

Incentives

1. Badged as senior instructor
2. Certificates (because universities on US like those)
3. Priority for travel or workshops they subscribe when there is a tie.

## Extra topics
