# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee

Date: Monday, August 29
* 1PM PDT (Western N. America)
* 4PM EDT (Eastern N. America)
* 8PM UTC
* 6AM + 1 day (Brisbane)

Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/356620434

THIS ETHERPAD WILL BE ARCHIVED ON https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/ THAT IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.

## Sign In

Attending
* Tiffany Timbers
* Rayna Harris
* Erin Becker
* Tracy Teal
* Marian Schmidt
* Karin Lagesen
* Sue McClatchy
* Kate Hertweck (first few min)

Apologies
* Belinda Weaver (hotel wifi not free!

## Agenda
Introductions

Recap since past meeting
* Brief summary of last meeting (Erin?)

Main agenda items
* Carpentries page / mentoring repository update (Rayna? Erin? Kate?) https://github.com/carpentries/mentoring
	* Develop as a resource to consolidate materials across organizations
* Roadmap for the mentoring committee (Christina, Bill): http://pad.software-carpentry.org/mentoring-subcom-roadmap
	* Any final additions? 
	* Rayna add some details about mentoring meetings / re-evaluating and will incorporate the diversity comment
	* Christina to send around vote later this week
* Instructor discussion sessions: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
	* What's working?  What isn't working? (group)
		* They're fantastic! And we're getting lots of good feedback. Connecting with community. Meeting new instructors. 
		* Not a chore! Very fun!  :DDD
		* Approach people who have taught a few times, be a guest star --> target people who can't teach any more?
		* Put common problems into GitHub issues? Have follow-up steps (either as leader / participant), email follow-up? 
			* Email to follow up and encourage discussion participants to submit an issue on github. If the participant doesn not/can not follow-up on their issue, the mentoring committee discussion host can step up to do this
		* Little info on the hosts of the discussion - add some basic info on the discussions about the host (e.g. institution, twitter handle, etc)
		* Have a host from the timezone where the participants of the discussion 
			* West coast session, europe session, South Africa session, Australia session
			* Keep regular tuesday sessions and change the wednesday sessions to accomodate other time zones?
			* First ones in new time zones can have people already on mentoring committee who lead, and then new people are the note taker, to help train them
			* Idea from Christina: Mentoring subcommittee signs up for times, then email new people and have them sign up for a time. Ensures current person is on a call. 
		* Invite instructors who have taught 3-4 workshops in the past but have not taught in the last 12 month to encourage re-involvement
			* Etherpad: have host and co-host sign; on the etherpad list host and co-host responsibility, so it's clear who's should do what
		* Put together an invitation email, that also includes some of the positives of doing discussion sessions that we mentioned above
	* Formalizing discussion session organizing with two leads (Christina)
		* Christina to email Greg/Tracy offline
	* Getting hosts: proposition for increasing involvement (Christina)
		* Apologies - but I cannot host until my intensive teaching commitment is over in late Oct - TT
	* Standing agenda item: suggestions for questions to add to the discussion session agenda --> To discuss at next regular meeting
		* Is it time to swap out these questions?
		* Specific instructor requests for resource library videos (to replace questions on communications after two weeks?) What would be useful beyond lesson materials?
		* Example discussion: https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-training/issues/198
		* How are people using the instructor notes/guides?
* Amy update (Rayna):
	* nearly ready to roll out with new checkout procedures (as opposed to emailing Greg). A few insturctor traininers will test it out first then we will roll it out alongside with an updated "leading a discussion session checklist"
	* "email Greg" replaced with "Do these three things"
* Instructor notes (Kate)
	* Template available, but the current notes haven't been changed.
* Guides task force (Belinda? Anelda?)
	* Belinda: There has been some progress on my group. Of my original nine, I have got five through to the final stage of checkout, and I think at least one of those might be certified by now as a DC instructor. Of the remaining four, one has never been in contact, but I have done practice teaching with the other three. Two of those still have the lesson discussion step to go, which I might be able to do with them next week. However I have been dogged with constant connection problems with those three which has made it almost impossible to assess their readiness for teaching. I have told them they must address these issues before checkout.
	* Worth trying again at another place with less logistical issues
	* OR working on places where we're new, don't have a lot of local support
	* Bundle this kind of support into part of the training as a paid position?
	* Watch out for burnout, make sure there are clear boundaries for role
* Wishlist: What do you wish we could be doing?  
	* Promoting diversity (geographic + men/women)
	* get discussion session participants more engaged in opening issues and sending PRs
	* Discussion sessions, get more "experienced" instructors in sessions
		* Sue's suggestion: offer that they can co-host
			* Can help encourage people to join in that otherwise would not do it
			* Sue will take a look over the emails and edit them to add request to host discussions
		* Make sure that these are on the checklists  --> currently no link on the ether pad (add this)
			* SWC: On the checklist and asked to do it during instructor training
			* DC: also on checklist
* Mentoring meeting time + format

