# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee

Date: Monday, October 31

20:00 UTC = 1pm US/Pacific * 4pm US/Eastern * 8pm London

https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2016&month=10&day=31&hour=20&min=0&sec=0&p1=136&p2=179&p3=224

Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/356620434

THIS ETHERPAD WILL BE ARCHIVED ON https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/ THAT IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.

## Sign In

Attending

* Christina Koch
* Mark Laufersweiler
* Sue McClatchy
* Rayna Harris
* Maneesha Sane
* Tracy Teal

Apologies

* Marian Schmidt 

## Agenda

Introductions

Main agenda items

* Mentoring meeting time + format
	* Waiting until after Daylight savings to change
* Instructor discussion sessions: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
	* Host/Instructor sign-ups
		* New times added through December!  We're back to a Tues/Wed alternating schedule.  Please sign up at will.  :)
	* Should we cap the number of people (or workshops) in a discussion session?  
		* Having lots of people was good for experienced instructors, discussion of larger issues
		* Having lots of people was overwhelming for new instructors, not a good space for 1-1 questions
		* 4 people is still good, but a little small (not as much discussion)
		* Potential solution: split the discussion among host/co-host into two sessions if there are a lot of people
		* General guidelines: split based on number of workshops represented.  4: don't split. 6: definitely split. 5: host's choice (maybe look at number of people)
		* Action item: add this to the leader checklist/instructions in the board github repo
		* Action item: Maneesha creates a second room in BlueJeans
	* Finalize discussion agenda
		* Pretty much done - see discussion etherpad
	* Something to think about: using our discussion session analysis to feed into changes of SWC/DC workflows
		* Erin to look at when she gets back
		* Not always feasible to ask participants to raise issues
		* Blog posts? issues? (still have old template from earlier)
		* Other ways to communicate besides authoring blog posts/emails?
		* Interest in topical posts (on one lesson, or one aspect of teaching)
* Discuss "mentoring group" idea from last meeting
	* See notes below
	* Tracy's document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1INzfbPxiU_bSMqkw4ru_cnPQcRNyacb36v67EZ-VwgM/edit
	* Discussion
		* Two questions: is this something we want to do (for some value of this)?  And if so, do we (mentoring committee) want to take it on?
		* Related: what would the goals of mentorship be? 
		* Interest in how to build up local communities and support people regionally
		* Onboarding sessions for DC seemed successful -> try a similar model to recruit + train people for mentoring efforts?  
		* Important aspects: make it easy to contribute, allow people to define boundaries (how much/at what level they participate), recognize contributions (say thank you, do badges, publically recognize, other "rewards")
		* Model of Mozilla study groups - locally organized, but w/ monthly call for leaders
	* Action items
		* Read through document / create Google form to solicit feedback
		* Get feedback from mentoring sub-committee
		* Get feedback from community (blog post, discuss list, community call?)
		* Hopefully this will solidfy goals and roles, and we can then organize + get people on board
		* Maybe use onboarding calls, like Tracy has done for DC?

## Mentoring groups

(notes from previous meeting)

Tracy's suggestion: Team of mentors that the mentoring subcommittee supports
	* What would they need to do?
	* What would we need to do to support them?
		* Put out a call to experienced instructors - 1 hour a month to host a session
	* If you know anyone who is an experienced instructor and would be willing to help out, please let us know or just have them sign up
	* Kate: getting some more people to run discussion sections; good to make a role simple; keeping track of resources with us; could feed into guide roles, not sure if that's even being effective

Idea from Tracy: to be a mentor you would need to have taught 2 workshops, agree to host a discussion session once a quarter, agree to be a point of contact for new instructors local to you

From Kate: would be good to have something clear for people to do that isn't a subcommittee

From Mark: giving back if you've been instructor for a while, a way to learn more from other instructors and meet other people

From Maneesha: Instead of setting times and then having hosts sign up, we could let hosts pick their own times

From Tracy: If we do have mentors what does that mean we would need? Resources for mentors - things for them so they know what to do and how to be a mentor

Tracy will draft something that is 'what is a mentor' 
point at what other people have gotten out of being mentors what's good - existing blog posts or information from people who are going through pilot

For names of people to email first: create a Gogole doc and put in names. Maneesha will coordinate with Christina to get names to start the doc.

Where to advertise requests for mentors/discussion hosts?

	* Make request at this week's community call
	* Include in next newsletter
	* Personal callls 

Need someone to add to next month's newsletter - who do we talk to? Can someone take this on? 

## *** Discussion session agenda for revising + comments

**Add note to say these questions are guidelines.  Hosts are welcome and encouraged to adapt questions as needed.
1 up/1 down

Agenda
* Welcome and host introduction
* Attendees introduction
	* Name, affiliation/position, purpose for attending
* Report from previous workshops
	* What main topics were taught (e.g. bash, python, git)?  Remove -  this is already in the agenda
	* What worked the best during your workshop?
	* What was the biggest hurdle? - these are often facilities related; not always in our control
	* Any changes or additions to lesson material? Anything unique that you did?
	* For centrally-organized workshops:
		* *How did instructors share roles/responsibilities?  Was there a designated "lead instructor" or did you act as co-instructors?
		* *Anything about instructor/host communication that could have been better faciliated?
* Preparing for upcoming workshops
	* Specific questions about teaching and/or lessons?
	* For centrally-organized workshops:
		* *How are instructors sharing roles/responsibilities?  Is there a designated "lead instructor" or will you act as co-instructors?
* Preparing for instructor training checkout
	* Questions about checkout procedure, lessons, or workshop organization?
	* Have you asked a question here yet?
* Closing
	* *What additional resources would be useful to you in teaching or preparing for a workshop?
	* *Do you find the instructor notes helpful? How do you use them? How could they be more useful?
	* What are you most excited about for teaching Software/Data Carpentry? 
* Reminder to discussion session participants: 
	* Export the etherpad (button at top right) if you'd like to save notes from our session. Notes will be removed soon after the discussion ends!
	* For small typos, submit pull request to appropriate lesson
