# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee Meeting

Date: 14/12/2015

Times: 5pm GMT and 9pm UTC.

## Attending

### Afternoon

-   Bernhard Konrad
-   Christina Koch
-   Greg Wilson
-   Karin Lagesen
-   Kate Hertweck
-   Maneesha Sane
-   Raniere Silva
-   Rayna Harris

### Evening

-   Bill Mills
-   Raniere Silva
-   Sue McClatchy
-   Tiffany Timbers

## Apologies

-   Belinda Weaver
-   Carol Willing
-   Daniel Chen
-   Jonah Duckles
-   Mariela Perignon
-   Michael Sarahan
-   Phil Rosenfield
-   Tracy Teal

## Announcements

## Past Actions

(Is OK to say "no updates")

-   All: Review https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/50.
-   Raniere: send the list of future instructors to Kate.

    Done.
-   All: Fill http://whenisgood.net/kanff2p.

-   Raniere: Wrote a blog post about the help sessions.

    Done. http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/12/lauching-pre-workshop-help-session.html
-   Raniere and Karin: Talk with Jonah about calendar.

    Done. http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/12/community-calendar.html
-   Raniere: create calendar.

    Done. http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/12/community-calendar.html

## Post Workshop Debriefing Sessions 

1.  December 8 (this will be the last one in 2015)
    1.  Morning (10:00 EDT): Tiffany TimbersBernhard Konrad Sue McClatchy
    2.  Evening (19:00 EDT):Bill Mills Raniere Silva
2.  Need volunteer for January 12 (this will be the first one in 2016)
    1.  Morning (10:00 EDT): Rayna Harris
    2.  Evening (19:00 EDT): Belinda Weaver
3.  Need volunteer for January 26
    1.  Morning (10:00 EDT):
    2.  Evening (19:00 EDT): 
4.  Need volunteer for February 9
    1.  Morning (10:00 EDT):
    2.  Evening (19:00 EDT): Tiffany Timbers
5.  Need volunteer for February 23
    1.  Morning (10:00 EDT):
    2.  Evening (19:00 EDT): Tiffany Timbers

## Post Workshop Debriefing Sessions - Procedure

Vote on: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/50.

Vote on pull request was postponed.

## Pre Workshop Help Sessions

Feedback on first round, December 9th, 2015.

Rayna's session: no one showed up

Kate's session: someone teaching this week, question about where to get data for shell lesson, shared links/cheatsheets/socrative resources

Schedule for same week as debriefing?

RS: I prefer not on the same week to avoid people devoted more than 3h per week. Add schedule to etherpad, for sign-up, same as post-workshop.

KH: Should we run this only once a month since there was only one people that join?

RS: I'm OK with it.

GW: Make this "strongly suggested" for first-time instructors?

KH: I'm OK with it.

MS: There are a lot of workshops between Christmas and New Year.

KH: Can you help us with the people that are teaching for the first time.

KL: Could we advertise the help session for people that are going to teach.

KH: Given the amount of work with the Practicum I thing that running only once a month will help avoid overwhelming people.

## Instructor Training

### Praticum

Comments about feedbacks: http://software-carpentry.org/blog/2015/12/feedback-on-practicum-proposal.html

KL: Need to apologise that things went slow and now is the Christmas. Steering Committee approved the Practicum proposal but we only have a few responses to the survey and I think that the wording didn't help very much since the all the people that reply are also signing up for the Practicum. And what we really want with the survey was get feedback of for how we can accommodate people.

GW: Even if we get the double of response of mentors we will not have enough hands for cover all the trainees. I think that is something too big to ask.

CK: For who are in this call, who was planning to be a mentor for the Practicum. I think that people on the mentoring subcommittee are more interested in the practicum but not on the meetings/email discussion.

GW: There are 27 people on the mentoring list.

RS: We need to subtract members of the Steering Committee.

KL: The amount of hours is huge or the duration is the issue?

KH: I'm concerned about the time commitment. A function of both.

GW: I suspect it's both as well.

KL: What if we cut this for two weeks instead of four weeks?

GW: 4 hours total over two weeks and from the learners?

KL: I will double the number of hours for learners.

GW: 6-8 total over two weeks?

KL: Yes.

GW: People will not teach a full day at the first time. Another possibility is to let people focus on the lesson they will teach for the first time.

KL: Maybe the lesson they most want to teach.

GW: E.g. you are going to teach shell and we will have one hour discussion about it. Could you join the discussion?

KL: We could cover only the first half of the lesson.

RS: I'm -1 to only cover half of the lesson.

CK: We probably got the point that we need to cut the Practicum. What about people that want to teach Software and Data Carpentry.

KL: Pick two out of four really Unix+Git or R/python

KH: We want folks to learn how to prep lessons, not how to teach specific lessons (because the latter is a moving target!)

RH: There are a lot of discussions and proposals for the first workshop. Help session, practicum, instructor training, ... Maybe some of this activities are better for some groups of instructors. Could we filter the new instructors?

GW: The number of new instructors don't teach for us in the first year. Also there are some concern about quality. And some people approach me saying that they don't know what they need to do when they are on the stage.

BK: do we know why this number is relatively low?

GW: Beth Duckles is working to get that information.

MS: What group we want to invite for the Practicum.

GW: We are looking for people that are on the full pilot.

MS: They don't necessary have sign up for one workshop yet.

GW: Yes.

KL: Most of the workshops will be self-organize and means that people are going to run without wheels. We need to provide all the help we can to the new instructors.

CK: We want the mentoring/Practicum for quality control. Sounds that the help is optional and the Practicum is the requirement.

RH: I was wondering if there is enough people to participate on this because of the time commitment. There is one way to find the example for be mentor and pair them with the new instructors. This should be good.

KL: I just had a probably crazy idea how about once a month doing a module specific call, like the Git thing we had. in the similar vein that we have the calls we already have.

MS: I can try to enforce to have one new instructor and one senior instructor for every workshop. And this could be the pair that we are talking about. We will not require extra time committee but will have something closer to the Practicum.

GW: I liked Maneesha's idea. I don't know about the balance of this matching process. And I don't have any idea for the graduation exercise.

KL: The original idea was that every new instructor go over all the modules. If we split this mentoring to one async training so that we require that people join that meeting before taught one workshop. This will avoid the many hours committee for mentors and mentes.

RH: I like Karin's idea. Keep the mentoring meetings for people after the instructor training and the help session only for people that already sign up for one workshop.

GW: I need something to tell for people what will be the last exercise.

KL: Q: can we (i.e. us who are on this call) commit to one of these in January ?

BK: Are new instructors offered/matched to a workshop where they can teach their first lesson?

KL: no

BK: OK

KL: and that is the problem.

GW: Maybe 5 minutes lesson? Maybe pull request? So that we know they understand the module.

BK: so we need mentor to organize workshops at these strategic question

RH: Maybe taught for 10-15 minutes and get feedback later.

GW: i like that

KL: Love it.

BK: That's awesome.

BK: you can decide when to tell them to make the workload work out.

GW: Rayna, could you send a write down version of the proposal?

RH: Yes.

KL: we're keeping the mentoring part? I.e. the advice on the module?

RS: I think that we will drop the mentoring part.

## Extra topics

### Data Carpentry

We need to include more people from Data Carpentry into the subcommittee or work together with them.
