# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee

Date: Monday, December 12 (or Tuesday, for our Australian/NZ members)

First meeting: UTC 15:00 // SYDNEY: (Tue 2016-12-13) 02:00 // NEW YORK: 10:00 // LONDON: 15:00

Second meeting: UTC 23:00 // SYDNEY: (Tue 2016-12-13) 10:00 // NEW YORK: 18:00 // LONDON: 23:00

Link to connect:  https://bluejeans.com/356620434

THIS ETHERPAD WILL BE ARCHIVED ON https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/ THAT IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.

## Sign In

Attending

* Christina Koch (meetings 1 + 2)
* Rayna Harris (first meeting)
* Mark Laufersweiler (first meeting)
* Maneesha Sane (first meeting)
* Kate Hertweck (first meeting)
* Raniere Silva (first meeting)
* Greg Wilson (first meeting)
* Erin Becker (second meeting)

Apologies

* I'm really sorry for all the snow, eh?


## Agenda


Introductions

Recap from last meeting

* Discussion sessions: split if they're large (see updated checklist + procedures)
* Proposed expansion of mentoring commitee activities by creating a mentoring program (will discuss further today)
* Fewer mentoring committee meetings - people are busy!  

Main agenda items

* Announcement: Upcoming spin-off groups
	* Organizers of local campus communities (Mark Laufersweiler)
	* What are we doing locally for our instructors?  What can we do to connect people regionally?  
	* Coordinating w/ Tracy + Maneesha to get this started in the New Year
	* Greg: we did set up regional mailing lists, but those haven't really taken off
	* Career-advice (Lauren Michael)
* Instructor discussion sessions: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
	* New times added through December!  We're back to a Tues/Wed alternating schedule.  Please sign up at will.  :)
	* Do we want to cancel discussions over the Christmas/New Year holidays?  
		* We still need to get some trainees through before the end of the year
	* Lightning discussion: 
		* What to do w/ trainees who don't really participate in discussion? (Even when asked guiding/leading questions.)
			* Could be different reasons: uncomfortable, shy, already know lots of information about SWC/DC
			* Encourage people to write notes/comments in the Etherpad
			* For now, if this happens: reach out to them/lead instructor trainer directly --> if they still don't engage, they don't "pass"
			* Change discussion session instructions, looking for either 1) question, or 2) ask more experienced trainees to share
			* Useful to use the closing of "share what you're excited about" or ask them specifically about the lesson they're preparing.   
		* What to do w/ a large group when there's no co-host? 
		* Postpone the decision to split up until you're 5-10 minutes in (when you know who is coming)?  Or do it beforehand?  We need feedback on how this goes.
			* Haven't split up, b/c it wasn't clear how full the session would be until 5-10 min in.  That's worked out.  
			* Related to no-show issue (see below)
			* etherpad for scheduling is a limitation --> something like meetup or basic calendaring app?
		* How do you handle extra-talkative participants?
			* Not usually an issue, sometimes a matter of perspective
		* What do you do to follow up with discussion sessions? 
			* share email for direct contact (kate/maneesha/rayna in a few cases)
			* I have find people on twitter and follow them. i try to to this most times
			* i invite people back to more discussions sessions and say i look forward to seeing them again
		* If we have time: how can we communicate discussion material (suggested changes, good ideas) to the wider community? 
		* What do we do when discussions are skewed towards experienced instructors or trainees? (Just had a session with 4 trainees & no experienced instructors other than hosts)
			* Christina: email recent/active instructors to serve as "guests" on the rest of the December calls
			* List of people as backup experienced instructors: Mark, 
			* Rengage mentoring folks: Tiffany Timbers, Mariela Perignon, Daniel Chen, Phil Rosenfield, 
			* John Didion, Markus Ankenbrand, Piotr?, Tobin Magle
		* How do we deal with no-shows and how can we minimize the occurance and/or get people to remove their names
			* integrate better with calendaring systems (add link to community calendar, https://software-carpentry.org/join/, which easily allows you to copy to your google calendar)
			* add to the sign-up info a reminder that you should un-sign-up if you can't make it
	* Feedback: how could we be gathering feedback about the discussion sessions, from both participants and hosts?  
* Discuss mentorship proposal (link forthcoming)
	* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z3pTJHOm0ARTInRcmgXH3lchqjnk6ZitkeVSq2kaI_w/edit
	* Mentoring program, cohort with a few other people (six months), required to teach? 
		* Some people may not have the ability to teach w/in six months, like the idea of the mentor being there after the first encounter
	* Come to a discussion session that your mentor is hosting for debrief (or other support)
	* Would love a short-list of potential mentors - people who have taught 2+ times, but would be friendly
		* From local communities
	* Instructors trained, but not signed up to teach?
	* Hard to get people engaged
		* Greg: Training for us (committee members) in how to get people engaged in volunteer organizations
		* Mark: leads Boy Scouts and has same issue!
			* Understanding people's goals is very important, as well as what the goals of organization is
			* Can't be everything to everybody

Walk-ons: please add additional topics below

* work with lesson infrastructure folks on, or help create task forces for:
	* instructor notes (revising existing, fitting into new template)
	* guidelines for lesson contributors (https://opensource.com/life/16/3/contributor-guidelines-template-and-tips, idea from Tracy) + thanks Tracy. looks useful
