# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee

Date: Monday, October 17

1pm US/Pacific * 4pm US/Eastern * 9pm London

Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/356620434

THIS ETHERPAD WILL BE ARCHIVED ON https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/ THAT IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.

## Sign In

Attending

* Kate Hertweck
* Rayna Harris
* Sue McClatchy
* Raniere Silva
* Maneesha Sane
* Tracy Teal
* Mark Laufersweiler

Apologies

* Marian Schmidt - I'll be teaching a workshop: https://arthur-e.github.io/2016-10-17-EEB-SNRE/ (cool! good luck!)


#Agenda

Introductions

Main agenda items

* Mentoring meeting time + format
	* Meeting attendance is slim - would it be a better idea to have two meeting times while school is in session?  Or are people just busy?
	* We'll wait to decide a new time if needed until after daylight savings time switches. 
* Instructor discussion sessions: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
	* Should we explicity cap attendance (i.e., 9 people for tomorrow's session)?  I don't want to risk turning anyone away but do want them to be small enough so everyone has a chance to speak
		* Discussion: if it gets too many, people don't have a chance to participate. If there are multiple people from the same workshop, then it doesn't usually take 
	* Host/Instructor sign-ups
		* New times added through December!  We're back to a Tues/Wed alternating schedule.  Please sign up at will.  :)
		* How to get more people to serve as hosts
		* Christina has emailed some former, now more inactive instructors about jumping on the calls
* Tracy's suggestion: Team of mentors that the mentoring subcommittee supports
	* What would they need to do?
	* What would we need to do to support them?
	* Put out a call to experienced instructors - 1 hour a month to host a session
	* If you know anyone who is an experienced instructor and would be willing to help out, please let us know or just have them sign up
	* Kate: getting some more people to run discussion sections; good to make a role simple; keeping track of resources with us; could feed into guide roles, not sure if that's even being effective
	* Idea from Tracy: to be a mentor you would need to have taught 2 workshops, agree to host a discussion session once a quarter, agree to be a point of contact for new instructors local to you
	* From Kate: would be good to have something clear for people to do that isn't a subcommittee
	* From Mark: giving back if you've been instructor for a while, a way to learn more from other instructors and meet other people
	* From Maneesha: Instead of setting times and then having hosts sign up, we could let hosts pick their own times
	* From Tracy: If we do have mentors what does that mean we would need? Resources for mentors - things for them so they know what to do and how to be a mentor
	* Tracy will draft something that is 'what is a mentor' 
	* point at what other people have gotten out of being mentors what's good - existing blog posts or information from people who are going through pilot
	* For names of people to email first: create a Gogole doc and put in names. Maneesha will coordinate with Christina to get names to start the doc.
* Where to advertise requests for mentors/discussion hosts?
	* Make request at this week's community call
	* Include in next newsletter
	* Personal callls 
	* Need someone to add to next month's newsletter - who do we talk to? Can someone take this on? 
* Revamp discussion session agenda
	* The discussion session agenda (see below) is a bit long.  How can we a) shorten it? and b) make it clear that this is the starting point for discussion, but we don't have to go through *all* the questions in a particular order?
* Lesson-specific discussions 
	* Last time we talked about the possbiility of doing lesson-specific discussion sessions (a 1-2 hour call on Python, or R, for example)
	* Someone suggested floating the idea by the Bridge committee, in order to use part of a community call to discuss a particular lesson (for 20-30 minutes, maybe make sure the maintainer for that lesson is there)
	* If there's lively discussion on the community call and people are interested in talking further, we can organize independent discussion
	* Can someone bring this to the Bridge committee?
	* Save for the soon to be formed mentors group   

## *** Discussion session agenda for revising + comments

**Add note to say these questions are guidelines.  Hosts are welcome and encouraged to adapt questions as needed.

1 up/1 down

Agenda

Welcome and host introduction

Attendees introduction

Name, affiliation/position, purpose for attending

Report from previous workshops

What main topics were taught (e.g. bash, python, git)?  Remove -  this is already in the agenda

What worked the best during your workshop?

What was the biggest hurdle? - these are often facilities related; not always in our control

Any changes or additions to lesson material? Anything unique that you did?

For centrally-organized workshops:

*How did instructors share roles/responsibilities?  Was there a designated "lead instructor" or did you act as co-instructors?

*Anything about instructor/host communication that could have been better faciliated?

Preparing for upcoming workshops

Specific questions about teaching and/or lessons?

For centrally-organized workshops:

*How are instructors sharing roles/responsibilities?  Is there a designated "lead instructor" or will you act as co-instructors?

Preparing for instructor training checkout

Questions about checkout procedure, lessons, or workshop organization?

Have you asked a question here yet?

Closing

*What additional resources would be useful to you in teaching or preparing for a workshop?

*Do you find the instructor notes helpful? How do you use them? How could they be more useful?

What are you most excited about for teaching Software/Data Carpentry? 

Reminder to discussion session participants: 

Export the etherpad (button at top right) if you'd like to save notes from our session. Notes will be removed soon after the discussion ends!

For small typos, submit pull request to appropriate lesson