# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee

Date: Monday, July 25
* 1PM PDT (Western N. America)
* 4PM EDT (Eastern N. America)
* 8PM UTC
* 6AM + 1 day (Brisbane)

Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/356620434

THIS ETHERPAD WILL BE ARCHIVED ON https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/ THAT IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.

## Sign In

Attending
* Christina Koch
* Belinda Weaver
* Sue McClatchy
* Erin Becker
* Marian Schmidt
* Maneesha Sane

Apologies


## Agenda

Introductions

Recap since past meeting
* Archived notes update? (Maneesha, Erin)
* Action item: Add instructions for how to access etherpad archives
* Everyone (including public and mentoring committee) has read access to all data: https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/0B2Xc7BrFgkvUeWV4clUzdmIyYTQ

Main agenda items
* Roadmap for the mentoring committee (Christina, Bill): http://pad.software-carpentry.org/mentoring-subcom-roadmap
	* To know what our collective goals are as the mentorship committee - keep our committee accountable to the steering committee 
	* Opportunity for us to define how this kind of document works.  :)
	* See the link above for more notes on this document
	* Major side discussion: instructor guides/notes (in the future potentially add to the agenda for instructor discussions? Notes are existent for DC ecology but not for the other lessons)
		* Action item: let's talk to Kate about what her plans would be (Erin + Christina will email)
	* Action item: Email to whole group as own email (Christina) and discuss at next meeting
* Instructor discussion sessions: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
	* How are things going? Any tips or feedback to share with the group?  
	* Join any session you like as a host or co-host! 
	* Standing agenda item: suggestions for questions to add to the discussion session agenda
		* Specific instructor requests for resource library videos (to replace questions on communications after two weeks?) 
		* Example discussion: https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-training/issues/198
* What to do if instructor discussions are primarily instructor checkouts (no attendees who are debriefing)?
	* Have the people going through instructors/helpers in past workshops before training? 
	* Not so concerned about having lots of instructor training checkouts
	* Ask people to share their other experiences teaching - with SWC/DC and in other contexts
	* Ask people to share what they are excited about or looking forward to when they start teaching
	* In the fall, if we're still seeing the imbalance of checkouts vs pre/post debriefing sessions, discuss how we can get more people to pre/post debriefing
* Side conversation 1: are we tracking who comes to pre/post debriefing? (used to be possible in AMY)
	* Maintaining instructor accountability - debriefing as requirement, not communicated, not enforced
	* Do we want to make it more of a requirement? And if so, how would we be communicating and enforcing this? 
		* Action item: Check why this was taken out of AMY - can we put it back in?
* Side conversation 2: instructor review process? 
	* Not strictly part of mentoring committee duties (potential policy committee in the works)
	* But we could review a plan!  :)
* Side conversation 3: difficult co-instructor comes up in discussion session?
	* for now, send it to Jonah or Tracy, Greg, cc Maneesha
* Added Maneesha's "What are you excited about" question to the instructor-discussion agenda.  :D

Walk-ons: please add additional topics below
* Request for additions to trouble-shooting document : https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xrwBrOklR7NMSSfMQ5x-X_686DO7Q0Kj4rDsrsvCH0k/edit

