# Software Carpentry Mentoring Subcommittee

Date: Monday, June 27
* 1PM PDT (Western N. America)
* 4PM EDT (Eastern N. America)
* 8PM UTC
* 6AM + 1 day (Brisbane)

Link to connect: https://bluejeans.com/356620434

THIS ETHERPAD WILL BE ARCHIVED ON https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/ THAT IS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE.

## Sign In

Attending
* Rayna Harris
* Erin Becker
* Kate Hertweck
* Bill Mills (to 1:30 pacific)
* Belinda Weaver
* Christina Koch

Apologies
* Tiffany (actually, I can not make it, something came up, apologies) 
* Tracy Teal
* Maneesha Sane

## Agenda

Introductions

Recap since past meeting
* Discussion session procedures
	* when to cancel - best judgment, and send emails (if you don't have access to email, 
	* limit the number of people - if you see your session filling up, maybe leave a note when it's full
	* If session is over
	* In general, if you're concerned about hosting your session yourself, email the mentoring list (or Christina) and ask for a co-host.  :)
	* Sign up 

Main agenda items

* Discussion: how to choose what to teach (typically Software Carpentry R/Python lessons)
	* Summary from last time:
		* Choice is often driven by your participants
		* Everyone also has their own preferences (favorite tools, favorite order)
		* One proposal: present 3 possible ways to teach the material in 6 hours
	* More thoughts?
		* One option: See how someone else has taught it: a gallery of different examples (Python as taught by Rayna, Kate, Belinda, etc.)
		* Another option: "We've tried all these iterations and this is the best."
		* --> If we present different options, how can we help people choose which track?  
		* --> For Python, practically, not a problem because no one ever gets through the first chunk of the material
		* Put that information in the instructor's guide; have a starting option for folks (esp. for Python, shell)
		* Action items: contact the maintainers about how we can/should proceed in this area (use Kate as liason), but in a few weeks
* Update on "guiding" project and South African trainees
	* Challenge for this particular group: how to interact via online global community
	* Technology issues were making it difficult to connect
	* "love people through finishing"
	* http://pad.software-carpentry.org/saguides if you want to sign up to help (all times in Capetown)
	* may be important to set rules for feedback
* How to handle checkout deadline for instructor training - if you have 
	* https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-training/issues/234
* Whip up a quick roadmap, ala steps 2 and 3 here: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/subcommittees/proposal_instructions.md#step-2-draft-a-plan, for the Mentorship Committee? Anelda's top post here is a viable example of this in the field: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/118.    ...Mentorship is doing great, just want to make sure all our subcommittees and task forces have at least roughly the same procedure applied to each of them as we roll the program out on our website (see https://github.com/swcarpentry/website/pull/348 for context / progress there).
	* heart & soul - are we making progress and are we communicating
	* Pull together loose, non-binding, roadmap for where we're going in the next 6 months
	* We know what we're doing, but do we have a plan moving forward? 
	* "identify needs in the community and find ways to address them."
* Instructor discussion sessions: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/instructor-discussion
	* How are things going? Any tips or feedback to share with the group?  
	* See notes above
	* Join any session you like as a co-host! 
	* Standing agenda item: suggestions for questions to add to the discussion session agenda
		* Specific instructor requests for resource library videos (to replace questions on communications after two weeks?) Example discussion: https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-training/issues/198
	* Erin + Beth have been going through the notes and coding them for analysis, will report
		* Could use a more consistent way to take notes / differentiate questions + answers
		* Notes get taken about questions that aren't standard -- part of the dynamic nature of the discussion
		* Maybe go back to our original method of pre-filling the etherpad
		* Or surveys?
		* To discuss at next meeting!  Both logistics of how we do these discussion sessions + what their purpose is (data gathering vs. casual conversation)
		* Rayna's post meeting idea - inspired by what Kate said about having an overload of surveys  and by what I learned last week talking about people who deal with assessment all day - the best thing about the discussion is the discussion that ensues from having a collection of people with different experiences and needs. do we need to focus that hard on getting quantitative data out of these, or can we just rely on our collective memory to sift through all the info and identify common themes or problems that could be acted on to improve our community?

Walk-ons: please add additional topics below

* Briefly discuss the AMY workflow in development  http://chrismedrela.github.io/mockups
	* look at screenshots, if it's not immediately clear what you should be doing on that page, share that feedback.
* Mentoring committee volunteers to create videos of us teaching as examples for those preparing to do their own for the intructor training checkout (someone asked me for these at a discussion session, and Greg said we really don't have any). TT <-- werent there a ton on edthena? where'd they go? Also, a lot of the edthena videos not specific to DC/SWC content.  Problem is that they're not discoverable
	* Are there specific videos that would be useful for them in preparing for workshops (see ~ line 67 above)
	* Need shorter (public) videos for pieces of lessons --> could put in instructor guide 
	* Erin could take the lead (eventually) --> will need to know a) what people want b) make videos c) make things discoverable

