![The Carpentries Logo](https://software-carpentry.org/img/TheCarpentries.png)
# :memo: IDC Leadership Meeting :file_folder:

__Date:__ 2019-08-28

__Time:__ 1900 UTC

[Date and time link](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=IDC+Leadership+Meeting&iso=20190828T19&p1=1440&ah=1)

## :raised_hand: Attending
* Sarah Stevens
* Tobin Magle
* Marco Chiapello
* Arindam Basu

***

## Agenda and Notes
- Mentoring
	+ Report from last meeting
		- postpone the "power checkin" with Kari since they've only met once so far.
		- Action point: template for mentoring? have to invent the structure of these groups and plan.  Make a repo with the information collected from the mentors to put together guidlines for mentors around what kinds of activities they can do.
	+ Advertising for the final showcase for mentoring Oct 15th
		- **Month out, couple weeks, and then week before (Tobin to talk to Serah Rono)**
	+ Communicating about the next round of mentoring (recruiting more mentors)
		- Oct 22nd 2nd round of applications opens to the 11th of Oct
		- Could we open these the day of the showcase? - Kari can open this
	+ **Adding mentoring/how to get involved with the carpentries to discussion sessions. (Sarah to reach out to Martin)**
		- Getting a more geographically diverse group of mentors
			+ Local lists? and maybe some slack? Regional Coordinators?
- Edits to the questionaries & discussion session agenda
	+ **Can Martin/Kari change the form and agenda - Sarah**
	+ Write up the the changes we want for those things
		- Having people self opt-in to follow-ups about topics in the attendee questionare instead of asing in the host form.
- Themed discussion session
	+ https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-development/issues/83
	+ **Check in with Martin about this ^ - Sarah**
	+ Themed discussion of how to take notes in an online meeting/ or meeting in general/ where folks share their knowledge.
- Next month's meeting?
	+ Talk about a New project?
	+ Or Addition on our report
		- Finding common questions/topics in QY of the instructor form.


- Review of old projects?
	+ Project suggestion 1: We need to go through the discussion session forms and update the handbook with common questions (and meta analysis of who is hosting and why some folks are not hosting) ++++ 
	+ Project suggestion 2: Virutally inviting instructors to visit other workshops in some high throughput manner +++ 
	+ Project suggestion 3: Update the instructor notes - bug bbq / sprint+ + 
	+ Project suggestion 4: How to keep people involved after the workshop: Work on materials and testing out different ways to engage learners after the workshop for instructors - Life cycle of a community - turning learners into helpers into instructors+ 
	+ Project suggestion 5: Figuring out ways to train instructors in lessons they don't know, so they can teach them.


Action Items:
- ~Kemi: Move minutes to instructor development repo and reset for next month's meeting~ Sarah did this  
- Tobin: Mentoring  
- Marco: contact kari about putting together mentoring guide repo and making a form for mentors to submit their experience  
- Sarah: Reach out to Martin/Kari about chaging the questionare from and agenda for discussion sessions  
- Sarah: Check with Martin about themed discussions  