![The Carpentries Logo](https://software-carpentry.org/img/TheCarpentries.png)
# :memo: IDC Leadership Meeting :file_folder:

__Date:__ 2019-07-24

__Time:__ 1900 UTC

## :raised_hand: Attending
* Sarah Stevens
* Tobin Magle
* Marco Chiapello
* Kemi Mogbowan

***

## Agenda and Notes

- Projects
- Next month's committee meeting
+ Present our report on discussion sessions
+ Ask for feedback on ways to improve discussion sessions
+ Sarah: reach out to Martin about this plan

### Discussion of our analysis of the questionnaires
 
1. How many people are coming to each session on average?
Pull from number of attendee's question in Host questionaire (Q5)
2. How many people are pre/post workshop vs checkout?
Some text manipulation from the signin question
3. How many sessions have a notetaker?
In 2019, about 50/50.  Can we incentivise joining as a note-taker?
Concentrated push, trying to do a full month
Theory about how to take good notes.
Do we need to push this?  What is the purpose of the notes?
Ask for input from the community at next month's call?  And from the Carpentries?
4. Which topics were discussed? (this might be the most difficult to parse)
Maybe from "Were there any noteworthy topics of discussion during your call?" but this might not always be filled out.
Maybe we need to reword this question? (checkboxes?)
From that question:
Maybe we need to have a themed discussion session about reimbussement? <-forward comment about this to the Carpentries.
Who is hosting these discussion sessions? and how can we get more hosts involved?
Hosts typically host 2 a month.
Maybe we need to send out the option to sign up to the list more regularlly? 1/month when Martin adds new slots?
5. How can we improve the discussion session form?
See topics question above
Just noticed that we probably don't do anything with the folks it might be good to follow up with section (Please list any discussion participants who you felt might be good candidates to become more engaged with the Carpentries? If possible, please provide a brief description of what made you consider them.)?
Make this a controlled response so we can email folks suggested to follow up.
Name, email, what role you think they would be interested in, why you think they would be interested in that role

## Action Items
Sarah: reach out to martin and get him on the repo
Tobin: More formatting of the report for next month. (due week before the IDC meeting to send out with announcment)
Tobin and Sarah: Answering questions we haven't answered yet in the report. (due week before the IDC meeting to send out with announcment)
Sarah: Volunteer to make a modified version of this form based on our suggestions?
Sarah: ~Minutes~