![The Carpentries Logo](https://software-carpentry.org/img/TheCarpentries.png)
# :memo: Instructor Development Subcommittee Meeting :file_folder:

__Date:__ 2019-07-15

__Time:__ 16:00 & ~22:00 UTC~

## :raised_hand: Attending
* Sarah Stevens (1st and 2nd)
* Kari L. Jordan (1st)
* Tobin Magle (1st)
* Arindam Basu (1st and 2nd)
* Annajiat Alim Rasel (1st)
* Yared Abera (1st??)
* Martin Dreyer (1st)
* Marco Chiapello (1st)
* Toby Hodges (1st)

***

## Agenda

    - Welcome, introductions, and reminder of Code of Conduct
    - Updates from mentoring
    - Announcements and Ideas from Staff Liaison (Kari is out of the country and won't be able to attend the meeting)
	    + The Carpentries Values Project, See this thread on TopicBox and please spread the word:   https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss/T9029fc4692993ab1-M01da25a799f031a31f6f6aeb/input-needed-help-us-articulate-the-carpentries-values
	    + Instructor training refreshers as Themed Discussion Sessions, see this issue: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-development/issues/83
        + Collecting Feedback for incidents within and outside Carpentries spaces, complete this form and share it everywhere:
    https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/nRbKnO
    - Discussion about discussion sessions (including the questionnaire report)
	    + Modified Host Form. Feedback? - https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScIcE3XhOssnF9DhyfNCSonNJpI6dSwJQHgar81vJkaXpX6Zw/viewform
	    + Blog Post: https://carpentries.org/blog/2019/08/IDC-discussion-survey/


## 1st Meeting Notes

#### Mentoring
	Meeting this Friday, did onboarding 1:1 for most folks, getting updates on Friday  
	Working on improving the process, including booking the zoom room  
	Showcase in Oct 15. And new recruiting round will start Oct 22  
	Maybe recruit in Sept?  
	Does anyone have any ideas about how we might recruit more mentors and mentees?  
		Annajiat: it took me a while to find the Carpentries in the first place and I think there could be more work done to raise the profile of the organisation - coding clubs and other similar organisations. I'd like to organise a workshop at my local institute and this could be a good way to recruit.  
		Sarah: Maybe it would be helpful to speak to some of the other folks in the group who've set up local communities before.  
	Sarah: @Tobin do you have any ideas about how we could communicate with people about mentoring?  
		Tobin: put out communications more than once to remind people when deadlines are coming up, identify people who we think would be good mentors (hard because what are our criteria for "good mentor")  
		Arindam: often a one-on-one relationship between mentor and mentee. Need to do some work to match people up well. What's important is that we could relax the criteria for experienced mentors in order to get more people in to the program. There can be mentoring at many different levels.  
		Sarah: we should be encouraging people running instructor trainings, discussion sessions(can we put this in the agenda when applications are open?), teaching demos etc, to raise awareness with newly-certified instructors.  
	Annajiat: What is involved with the Mentoring Programme? Are they split between the different Carpentries?  
		Marco: the groups cover all of the Carpentries, with groups focussing on five different topics: organising workshops, teaching workshops, building communities, maintaining lessons, and (?)  
	Annajiat: Do we maintain archive for "lesson's learnt" / FAQ for new mentors / mentees from each of the carpentry events? It might be a great repository.  

### The Carpentries Values Project, 
See this thread on TopicBox and please spread the word:   <https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discuss/T9029fc4692993ab1-M01da25a799f031a31f6f6aeb/input-needed-help-us-articulate-the-carpentries-values>  
		Form: <https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfsjueQGSz3OCnZI_jMs_reNjkbNuQifYG5ZRBu-SwgLg_u2Q/viewform?fbzx=-7718781407035866138>   
		GitHub Issue: <https://github.com/carpentries/conversations/issues/21>

### Instructor training refreshers as Themed Discussion Sessions, see this issue: https://github.com/carpentries/instructor-development/issues/83

### Collecting Feedback for incidents within and outside Carpentries spaces
Complete this form and share it everywhere: <https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/nRbKnO>  
This is different from the form used to report code of conduct violations, which is here: <https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdi0wbplgdydl_6rkVtBIVWbb9YNOHQP_XaANDClmVNu0zs-w/viewform>  

### Discussion session:
		- Martin: themed discussion sessions show that there's a lot of people who are interested in topics outside the usual pre-/debrief sessions. Can be a great way to get people back into the community who may have been away for a while. Regarding hosts, we've had fewer sessions without hosts this year, so I think that's actually going really well.
		- Sarah: maybe we can recruit some trainers to run the refresher sessions? They will already be familiar with this stuff from the instructor training.
		- Martin: the topics suggested are things that come up very often in discussions - the sessions could be really helpful for a lot of people. I think we'll be able to get enough hosts together to be able to run these topics at least once.
		- Sarah: Maybe we can schedule some of these sessions and then start looking for hosts.
		- Arindam: When we talk about themed discussions I think it's a good idea to draw up a list of topics but then how do we prioritise topics? Can we put in a mechanism where people can either vote or request a particular topic. Could help us with scheduling.
		- Sarah: I think a form like this exists somewhere
		- Arindam: Would be good to know what peopel most want so that we don't spread ourselves too thinly
		- Sarah: I think we should start with the topics in the GitHub Issue. Also think it would be good to repeat some of the sessions (e.g. I know some people couldn't join for the burnout session and it was very popular)
		- Martin: There is a form that I can see the results of. We can switch normal scheduled sessions with themed discussions. Need to discuss with Kari and then teh wider community. We have to take all timezones into consideration, which we're not really doing at the moment. 
		Link to themed discussion session request form: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSen9_axxQ3_0FN5HjL7cyot9RzTdIGpOU16Wr1eatZblsfU7w/viewform
		- Toby: +1 to running sessions on topics that come up frequently in prebrief/debrief/checkout discussions
		- Arindam: can we invite outside experts to run themed discussion sessions? e.g. Carol Dweck on Mindset?
		- Martin: +1 to that. Having experts in any field in the discussion would be great.
		- Tobin: also +1
	- Modified Host Form. Feedback? - https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScIcE3XhOssnF9DhyfNCSonNJpI6dSwJQHgar81vJkaXpX6Zw/viewform
		- Arindam: (Q12) In my experience, almost everyone who comes to a discussion session would be up for getting more involved. Not sur ewhat to do with that question. Perhaps we can expand that question a little more?
		- Tobin: is there an equivalent to this question on the participants' form? Might be a good idea
		- Sarah: +1
		- Toby: +1
		- Arindam: +1 also shows who's interested in what area? Let them choose for themselves.
		- Marco: we will need to identify someone who can follow up with these people. Otherwise we will miss the opportunity.
		- Sarah: Maybe something we can discuss next time: who should take on the responsibility?
		- Tobin: Q8 is good on the host questionnaire but confuses people on the participants' form. Can we tweak?
		- Martin: We find that participants often fill in the wrong form. Have to find a way to make sure that they don't fill in the host form.
		- Sarah: Maybe we need to remove it from the signup section?
		- Martin: put the host questionnaire under reminders, make sure that the attendee questionnaire appears first in the agenda. Remind new hosts that they have to fill it in.
		- Sarah: Maybe a note next to host questionnaire, "Hosts: remove this line when copying the agenda". I did this last week and still got responses to the host questionnaire!
		- Tobin: +1 to taking it out of the signup section
		- 
		- Marco - might also consider checking in with folks over time to remind them they can come to the pre/post workshops.  Also maybe we want to host themed discussion sessions about learning a particular skill e.g. "How to import data in R" for instructors (Sarah calls these "skill-ups")
	- Blog Post: https://carpentries.org/blog/2019/08/IDC-discussion-survey/: anything we may want to change based on the findings so far?
		- Sarah: one of the things that struck me most was how many checkouts we have vs pre- and post-workshop attendees. It has worked ok in the past with only checkouts but I wish we had more pre- and de-briefs. Any ideas about how we can encourage more people to pre- and de-brief?
		- Martin: I tell learners that we'd love to hear from them at a discussion session, which has some effect. I think we have to change our strategy a bit, think about how we can motivate people to come and talk about it after a workshop. The same with instructors - we have to devise a strategy to get them involved a little bit more.
	- Annajiat: regarding communications: can we send out announcements to the wider world to invite people to get involved in Carpentries workshops? e.g. If you're trying to bring in more learners to a workshop, can we advertise these more?
		- Arindam: there are two different types of people who can get involved with the Carpentries - instructors and learners. We can advertise more widely to get more learners. For helpers, you can advertise as widely as you want. But instructors have to go through a training programme.

## 2nd Meeting Notes

-  Discussed topics for next week's leadershiip meeting