![The Carpentries Logo](https://software-carpentry.org/img/TheCarpentries.png)
# :memo: Instructor Development Subcommittee Meeting :file_folder:

__Date:__ 2019-07-15

__Time:__ 16:00 & ~22:00 UTC~

## :raised_hand: Attending
* Sarah Stevens (1st)
* Kari L. Jordan (1st)
* Tobin Magle (1st)
* Arindam Basu (1st)

***

## Agenda and Notes
- Introductions and Code of Conduct
- Report out about project leadership team decided on
    + Decision for first project is to analyze data for the form responses to:
		- get more hosts involved
		- update instructor notes
		- projects
	+ The LT will analyze the results of the host questionnaire prior to the meeting, and from that will decide what the topic of next months meeting will be
		- Link to attendee questionnaire results: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1oigwGpT4ZmI9FfutYWjTZ_hzex6Ud_auHaYMJ2BoP5o/edit#gid=1938650384
	+ Assigning questions for each Leadership team member to look at.
		- Host questionaire : 1-4 - Tobin, 5-7 - Arindam , 8-10 - Marco , 11-14 - Kemi
		- Attendee questionaire :  1-2 - Marco , 3-4 - Tobin  , 5-6 - Sarah, 7 -  Arindam (and joining between them...)
    - Updates from Mentoring 

## 2nd Meeting cancelled